
URL reference: https://www.chrisfarris.com/post/preinvent2023/
DateReviewed: 2023-12-01
Description: So, this is a pre-reInvent roundup, to prep people for the annual AWS show. Seems there is a lot of pre-show action, with 511 announcements in the lead up. They break things up into a few overall areas, and then post a one paragraph blurb from AWS and their opinion on each. There are about 3 dozen of these, and I like the approach. Also included are a link to the original announcement and other links where appropriate. Well done.
BottomLine: A review of AWS announcements prior to reInvent 
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@paritoshblogs/building-kubernetes-detections-strengthening-security-with-real-world-examples-8268cddd852f
DateReviewed: 2023-12-02
Description: Kubernetes does awesome stuff, but needs security to start off, wow, I don't know if we would have known. After a bit more in that vein, we dive in. Our first point is we have to know the K8s enviroment, which, okay. Next is common threat vectors, and they mention unauth API access. Third includes a YAML snip and tells us that API server auditing is important, but with no tie in to the snip. Fourth has another YAML snip, and talks about trusted container images, but the snip is about privileged containers. Fifth talks about network policies, with a YAML snip that seems to be deny all. Okay, so I'm going to stop there, as the "hands on" seems to be including YAML snips and just ignoring them? The ideas in the points are decent, but without tie in they are short and vague. Feels like this could have been good, but never got out of the draft stage.
BottomLine: Underwhelming and not hands on Kubernetes security walkthrough
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/breaking-down-the-wall-in-devops/
DateReviewed: 2023-12-03
Description: The DevOps wall is what we are going to dive into. After a bit of background on the wall concept, being the barrier between groups in the org, we get into a formal definition. They define it as the transition point(s) between teams, where things are handed over from one group to another. One important thing is metrics, and different groups are measured by different metrics. To break down the wall, they suggest a cultural shift is needed -- for instance, all teams have the same metrics to work towards. They also make the point that healthy orgs are important, and that people are informed of where things are in the cycle. Overall a decent piece.
BottomLine: Tackles the DevOps wall with strategies to tear it down
==
URL reference: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:share:6998612377482989568
DateReviewed: 2023-12-04
Description: This is just a short list of ops and sec challenges in Kubernetes and containers. There are only 6, and with no explaination it is a bit of a choose your own adventure. I mean, they are all true to an extent, but "image misuse" seems like it could mean a couple things, at least. There is also no suggestions or help, just a list of this might be bad.
BottomLine: Simple list with no context or remediations
==
URL reference: https://testkube.io/learn/automate-and-enhance-ci-cd-testing-with-github-actions-and-testkube
DateReviewed: 2023-12-05
Description: We start with no integration testing making developer experience bad. This article talks about using GitHub actions with Testkube. So, they start by explaining that Testkube allows you to build tests and test workflows in K8s. So you can use multiple integrations, like CLI, GitOps or what we'll be looking at, GitHub actions. They then lobby that their framework does a bunch of things as a suite that helps testing, which ok - fair. Now to the hands on - we have a few things needed, like K8s cluster, Testkube agent and API tokens, and Github account with actions enabled. They then create a test, add some parameters to check, add a Github action. They then demonstrate how a PR is able to merged on a successful test, and how it is blocked on a failed test. Interesting tool.
BottomLine: Demo of integrating Testkube with Github actions in Kubernetes for integration testing
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2023/12/05/kyverno-completes-third-party-security-audit/
DateReviewed: 2023-12-06
Description: This is an announcement post explaining that Kyverno has passed a third party audit. It shows a number of CVEs, their severities and which component is affected. Basically it shows that Kyverno has a good overall security posture, and although some things were discovered the development team were able to fix the issues. My feeling is this is aimed at bigger shops.
BottomLine: Announcement that Kyverno has successfuly passed a third party security audit
==
URL reference: https://blog.shellnetsecurity.com/2023/11/681/security/how-to-install-and-use-starboard-to-protect-your-kubernetes-cluster/
DateReviewed: 2023-12-07
Description: This is a walk through, so we start with a tiny paragraph of background on how the author discovered Starboard, and then we dive right in. He notes there are a few ways to deploy this, picks the Helm method, and does a couple changes to the config, and then deploys things to his cluster. He then shows the results of running the Helm charts, and looks at the performance spike caused by running the tool. He then shows the results from the tool, first as a summary and then as a detailed report. The author updates a version to address an issue, runs into a bug causing a crash loop, does some diagnostics and finally deployes the working update. Overall an interesting trip!
BottomLine: Good walkthrough and troubleshooting with Kubernetes security tool Starboarc
==
