
URL reference: https://dev.to/jamiu_cloud/kubernetes-architect-52fg
DateReviewed: 2025-01-01
Description: This article is more of a quick summary of learning. It does have a small diagram, but there are no real details. On the upside, it does broadly cover both the control plane and the data plane, and in point form goes through the high level components of each.
BottomLine: High level list of some Kubernetes architecture components - skippable
==
URL reference: https://www.kubecost.com/kubernetes-best-practices/kubernetes-firewall/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-02
Description: As Kubernetes has a slightly different layout then a traditional network, this article argues that you need a different approach to implementing a firewall. They do mention you could use a firewall in front of all of your K8s cluster, but I think the idea here is that it might not be the most effective guard, unless your ingress is mostly static. They start out with a table of some best practices along with ways to realize them, which is a decent starting point. They then give a primer on pods, service/ingress and Container network interface (CNI). They explain that all pods can communicate to all others by default, and to restrict this we have to implement a Network Policy. We are shown a YAML snip, and shown how to add the restrictions. They even show a deny-all YAML snip, if that is what you want to set as your base. They follow this up with the good advice to audit and monitor your usage, and show how to check from the CLI. They even say certain providers, like GKE allows you to log policy actions. Next up, we look at CNIs, which handle the network layer. They touch on Flannel, Calico, OVN-Kubernetes and Cilium. They point out chosing a CNI that aligns with your use case is very important. They go over various benefits and tradeoffs, allowing an informed decision. A very decent article.
BottomLine: Strong article on firewalls and network controls for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://minervadb.xyz/how-to-implement-encryption-at-rest-for-postgresql-in-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-03
Description: This article tackles encryption on the disk in PostgreSQL. They go through the steps, at a high level, to get this done. For this article, they are going to do the encryption on the disk itself, so have to enable it at the Kubernetes provider level when creating a Persistent Volume. They then add that volume to the pod with a PVC, and install PostgreSQL on top; they do include a sample YAML snip to show what it does. They then do say you should verify that encryption at rest is active. I have one issue -- they never mention that you could do this within PostgreSQL as an option, or explain any of the cons.
BottomLine: High level walkthrough of using encryption at rest in a Kubernetes PostgreSQL deployment
==
URL reference: https://irsl.medium.com/sneaky-write-hook-git-clone-to-root-on-k8s-node-e38236205d54
DateReviewed: 2025-01-04
Description: This article is a deep dive on the gitRepo volume driver exploit. We start with some background on Kubernetes volumes and how they are accessed through storage drivers, to give an overview. The note there are 16 different ones, and then we focus on the exploited one. The gitRepo driver includes a URL to a git repository, and Kubelet will check the repo out and make it available to your app. They note that this driver has had security issues before, related more that time to the git CLI itself, but still resulting in commands executing as root. The resulted in the gitRepo driver being updated to fix the issue but then deprecated. Now we go through getting a basic pod working with gitRepo - in an init container, you mount an emptyDir volume and that clones the repo into the pod's container. The way the repo is cloned is by passing the repo URL, and optional revision and directory parameters. In the CLI, it does a clone, then a checkout and a reset if revision is specified. Combing the options, it allows the clone, but allows the attacker to specify the directory it then changes into and then can checkout an arbitrary repo, including a .git subdirectory. This allows the attacker to have arbitrary commands executed, as .git holds the config files and the CLI will execute these commands as part of it's config parsing. They further note there is no fix coming, as it is deprecated already -- but do note you can restrict gitRepo volumes with AdmissionPolicy directives.
BottomLine: Good explaination of the gitRepo volume exploit on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.einfochips.com/blog/unleashing-superior-performance-and-scalability-with-docker-and-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-05
Description: We're going to look at some performance and scalability improvements in containers, with an eye to Docker and Kubernetes in this article. We start with background and a link to files used in the article. We start by going through some of the benefits of Docker, and then move on to how it helps with portability. They then show us a C# app, where they create a Dockerfile and show how to get an image from that and then run it. Now we move on to Kubernetes, with a bit of K8s background and then the benefits, before moving on to how K8s does scalability and high availability. The have a diagram of how autoscaling works, and then go through how horizontal scaling works, and do so with a Kind cluster. They also show how to set up metrics. Once we've got that, they go through creating a sample app to generate load. They then go though all the CLI commands to generate load and see the autoscaler work. We then move on to vertical scaling, and again they build a sample app to test things out. We then touch on LoadBalancing before concluding. Its a decent article, but tries to do too much -- I think it might have been better as a couple parts honestly.
BottomLine: Decent article on various autoscale strategies on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://altinity.com/blog/kubecon-recap-data-on-kubernetes-and-observability-with-clickhouse
DateReviewed: 2025-01-06
Description: This article is a brief recap on some talks at KubeCon, focused on observability. Each talk got a sentence or two, along with a YouTube link to the actual talk so you can watch it if it seems interesting. They talked about themes like OpenTelemetry emerging as a standard, and a few talks on logging and observability. They touch on some Data on K8s day talks, before some of the Observability hallway tracks, highlighting Last9, SigNoz, Dash0, HyperDX and Quesma. Each talk gets a link and a paragraph of descrption. Good recap!
BottomLine: Recap on the Observability side of KubeCon
==
URL reference: https://devpod.sh/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-07
Description: At first I thought this was an article or a product pitch, but it's an open source alternative to something like codespaces. That would be awesome for those that know what that is, but basically it is a workspace for development - basically a psuedo-VM for containing your development tools and editors/environments. It has a short video where they walk through opening up some different projects and walking through how you'd get productive. The key strength seems to be speed and isolation of your dev env. Actually something to check into.
BottomLine: Site for an Open source dev workspace tool called DevPod
==
URL reference: https://itbrief.co.nz/story/mirantis-unveils-open-source-kubernetes-engine-mke-4
DateReviewed: 2025-01-08
Description: This article seems like a slightly rewritten PR release, focused on Mirantis Kubernetes Engine. We're wowed with its 300K nodes in production and the fact that it's new releae is based in k0s, without telling us what that is. They handwave about enteprise encyrption and follow up with lots of buzzwords and references, without any real details. I'm not against product announcements, but explain the audience, what your product does, and what the real world case that is solved by the new features. This isn't that.
BottomLine: A skippable and fluffy release announcment for MKE 4
==
URL reference: https://www.suse.com/c/designing-for-the-edge-embracing-cloud-native-principles/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-09
Description: This article is a short exploration of designing for Cloud Native at the edge. We start with the statement that designing at the cloud's edge is different than in the data center or the public cloud. They say consideration must be paid to limited power, cooling or space, and the need for ruggeized platforms. It can also be the case that nodes are on the public network, and even might be physically accessible. They draw the contrast to things like automatic recovery and cluster monitoring not being available at the edge, so that the application itself has to be more resilient. They talk about best practices, starting with a hub and spoke model, where the hub allows for centralized comms to many clients. This model works well in retail deployments, where you have many locations that your apps must run at. They also point out that data generated at the edge is critical, but also must be protected. They touch on system hardening, network segmentation, and secure meshes to help achieve this. It's a short intro, but covers a lot of ground at a high level.
BottomLine: Decent intro to a good topic - Edge based cloud native design
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/debugging-k8s-with-k8sgpt-in-your-internal-developer-portal/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-10
Description: This piece purpots to get debugging working with K8sGPT to help in your internal dev portal. We dive in with some background about troubleshooting, which they claim is 40% of the time spent, and they say that has human error as a risk. There is some handwaving about Platform eng and the SDLC, none of which is very on point. We're now introduced to the AI tool they want to use, K8sGPT. We talk more GPT background, then a bit on the automatic AI enrichment process, with a kind of glossary where they explain what K8s is? Next, we're shown how to run K8sGPT on the CLI (I guess install/config is an exercise for the reader), and then we tackle the event flow. They have a helpful diagram, so that is good. The only issue is they mention Kafka here, which we haven't even talked about in the piece; they do have labels though which they walk us through the diagram with. We're now shown a Web UI, where they talk about workflows; and for good measure, they do mention other GPTs that you can use. My take -- it's a bit confused and not fully baked, but the idea is cool. Maybe they needed a copy editor?
BottomLine: Good topic, but this is done unevenly - Debug Kubernetes with a GPTs help
==
URL reference: https://dev.to/jayshri_landge_30/installing-a-kubernetes-cluster-on-centos-9-2g5g
DateReviewed: 2025-01-11
Description: Our article is going to walk us through installing a Kubernetes cluster on CentOS 9. We really start from first principles here - after a bit of intro the second para is what is Kubernetes, followed by a para of why K8s. Next is prereqa, and we need 3 nodes. each with 2GB RAM and 2CPUs, along with root access. We do a bit of network setup and then install the kernel headers on what will be our master node, before doing some various config bits and disabling swap. Now that we are prepped, they install containerd on the master node. They configure networking and firewalls, and finally add the K8s repo to the master node, before installing kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl. They then set up SSH keys before starting and enabling kubelet on the master node. Then we init the K8s cluster and set up kubectl, which brings up the first node in our cluster. They install the flannel plugin and verify cluster status. They then go through setting up a worker node, which is mostly a repeat of the master, but leaving out the control plane bits, and adds the part where we insert the master node's token so the worker node can join  the cluster. Actually a good and complete walkthrough.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of spinning up a Kubernetes cluster with CenOS 9
==
URL reference: https://itnext.io/kubernetes-the-road-to-1-0-525a9420fdf0
DateReviewed: 2025-01-12
Description: This piece is a longer historical piece and retrospective on Kubernetes. It focuses on the precursor called Borg, and how Google used and evolved the system, and how it got to version 1.0. There are a lot of diagrams, a bunch of recounting the issues with Borg and other steps on the way, and how things came together. It's interesting from both a technical and just having the backstory, and while it goes on a bit it's very interesting to read.
BottomLine: History of before Kubernetes up until the 1.0 version launch
==
URL reference: https://isovalent.com/blog/post/financial-services-runtime-security/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-13
Description: The gist of this article is that there are lots of potential security landmines in the modern biz system, and they believe that Kubernetes with the help of Tetragon and Cilium can mitigate these issues. We start by diving into an alphabet soup of acronyms from various areas, and they ask if our security is audit ready. The danger, they warn, is costly fines and even the loss of customer trust. They claim that tracking things like modifications of files and process executions can be tracked. They point to Tetragon being able to surface which pod is performing what action, and that because it has in-kernel policies that only authorized processes can modify sensitive files. Further, Cilium allows you to see network flows as data and requests traverse your network at various layers. They further claim this all is happening in real time. They argue that they can tie together network and system activity, and have a little diagram showing a surfaced unauthed data flow. Now, the article goes on for a few more sections, but it is only a high-level approach, with no details or even real insight in HOW to deploy, but rather a discussion of what might work. It's good to get the conversation started but not enough to help implement.
BottomLine: Good high level discussion of security approaches for Finance biz on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://sarinsuriyakoon.medium.com/deploy-ollama-on-local-kubernetes-microk8s-6ca22bfb7fa3
DateReviewed: 2025-01-14
Description: The original link was a summarized version of the article, but I've replaced that with the link to the actual original. The gist of this article is walking through deploying a REST API in front of an LLM into your K8s cluster. So we start with scalability and availability, and what if we could add an LLM to this (for unclear reasons)? Profit, I guess? Anyways, for our walkthrough, they'll be using MicroK8s and Ollama, and they point out the LLM here can run a variety of models. So we start with an install of MicroK8s on MacOS through the CLI, and then we move on to verifying it is up. They then do some config though a web dashboard, and use this to set up the Ollama containers needed. After it comes green, they do a test request. We now (after the test works) have a proof of concept deployed. Neat. I'd love a bit more talk about logs and theory of the LLM, but this gets us started.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of getting a simple LLM up and running under Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://kube.fm/data-protection-gaurav
DateReviewed: 2025-01-15
Description: So this article is really a product announcement, and has a blog entry it references, but both are confused and not great. In the blog, there is two paras of cheering for Kubernetes, before in the 3rd we get Kasten has a new version, v7.5. The issue is, they don't talk about the new features, but waffle about "enterprise scale resilience", "expanded security" and "modern virtualization". Since I have zero clue what Kasten does, all of this does not help understand the base product OR the enhancements. A couple more paras they talk about a "3x performance improvement in backup times", and then we clue in this is a backup/DR solution. So, I'd say while there is lots of verbiage, TARGETED writing would help a lot.
BottomLine: Weak roduct announcement for a new ver of backup software for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@ali_hamza/5-kubernetes-cli-tools-you-must-try-in-2025-e03aedd462e1
DateReviewed: 2025-01-16
Description: This article is going to surface 5 Kubernetes CLI tools for us to try in 2025. We get a bit of background on both K8s and why we'd want to use CLI tools, and then finally dive in. First up is Kubectl, which is the main tool to use to do K8s things. They give us a key features and some commands to know, which includes cluster info, spinning up a resource, looking at logs and changing a deployed resource. Next up is K9s, a terminal tool which helps to managed the cluster. They go through install and run, and mention that there is an interactive dashboard that allows you to do things. Third is Lens CLI, a compliment to Lens IDE, to help you manage your clusters more effectively. We go through a couple example commands. We move on to Stern, a way to help with debugging and managing log files. We go through install and a few example commands. Last up is ArgoCD CLI, which helps with GitOps workflows. We get some command line examples here.
My take is that this is a decent list, but a lot of them do the same things that others do, just in a different way. So it's not like you are adding 5 tools to your arsenal, but getting a look at a couple different ways to do something.
BottomLine: Okay high level review of 5 Kubernetes related CLI tools
==
URL reference: https://blog.devops.dev/kubernetes-security-implementation-guide-d853bc6a86f2
DateReviewed: 2025-01-17
Description: This article says it's a Kubernetes security implementation guide, so let's hope they have some good tips. We start with a diagram touching on some good concepts, so let's dive in. We start with a bullet point list of best practices, which are decent. Then we get some sample YAML for Pod security context and some config, with some code comments but no discussion or explaination. They then say "install cosign and enable image signatures", without ever explaining what this is and how it helps. And it goes on a little more like this. Again, the suggestions are decent, but if you know what they mean, do you need a quick guide to security -- and if your don't, how does implementing stuff you don't understand make you more secure?
BottomLine: Some good security bits but lacks explaination makes it tough for beginners to security on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-is-taking-over-deploy-smarter-with-4-new-techniques/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-18
Description: Kubernetes is taking over, or so proclaims this article, with the aim of helping us figure out what we need to know to utilize K8s. They call them techniques, but it is really broad topic areas. First up is the fundamentals, in this case for container orchestration. Second is terminology, which is what things like pod/node/cluster and so forth mean and howo they fit in. Third is where to deploy, and they mention things like physical or virtual machines etc. Lastly, we encounter "8 best practices", and this section is as long as the rest of the article and then some. My issue is they went from section 2 where they assume you never used K8s to best practices of "implement RBAC" and "set up Pod disrtuption budgets". It's not that the best practices aren't solid, but we're going from into to very sophisticated in the same piece? Still, some good points.
BottomLine: Some solid points but the article isn't sure if it's for beginners or intermediate users of Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://support.tools/kubernetes-pod-security-admission/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-19
Description: Part of blog, this entry talks about securing Kubernetes with Pod Security Admission. We start off with a short intro to the standard levels - privleged, baseline and restricted. We then run through a quick benefits list, and move on to getting things set up. They check the K8s version, then apply the plugin to the spin up of the cluster. We then are able to annotate namespaces to specify what level we want to run at. They then go through testing to ensure a non-comliant pod is refused admission to the cluster. They mention some other tools before going through some solid recommendations to get going with enhancing security in K8s.
BottomLine: Short but solid, walks through why and a bit of how to get Pod Security Admissions running on your cluster
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2025/01/02/unlocking-cloud-native-security-with-cilium-and-ebpf/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-20
Description: This article is a short intro and brief walkthrough to Cilium. We start with a short background of the landscape, before going through What Cilium is. The have a good list in 4 categories with 8 features that Cilium covers. Next is a short paragrph on how Cilium works, before we get into deploying Cilium. For the walkthrough, you need a Kubernetes cluster, kubectl and Helm installed. They use Helm to deploy Cilium, and go through the prep, install and verification steps on the CLI. They also show how to install Hubble as an option for observability. The latter part of this piece start to get thin, as the last 3 sections are bullet lists - on getting started, why choose, and real world use cases. It's almost like someone wrote an outline and then forgot to complete the paper. The first half is decent, and worth a read.
BottomLine: Uneven piece has an intro and walkthrough of Cilium on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://00xbinary.medium.com/getting-started-with-kubernetes-a-practical-beginners-guide-895a34604e6d
DateReviewed: 2025-01-21
Description: We walk through an intro to Kubernetes with this beginners guide. We start with what is K8s, and then we go through a lot of terminology, from nodes and pods to services as we explore what K8s is. We then go through a short hands on, installing and actually creating a pod. Short but solid.
BottomLine: Concise but decent intro to Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://github.com/robinovitch61/kl
DateReviewed: 2025-01-22
Description: This is a repo which is all about terminal visualization of your logs - with color coding and a tree structure to natigate. Goes through install and the keypresses needed to do different things.
BottomLine: Interesting CLI type take on Kubernetes logs
==
URL reference: https://www.javacodegeeks.com/2025/01/optimizing-java-in-kubernetes-resource-management-scaling.html
DateReviewed: 2025-01-23
Description: Our current article tackles Optimizing Java in Kubernetes, and we start with a short paragraph of background. We then dive in, first getting into Java resource mgmt in Kubernetes. They talk about requests and limits, and show us a snip of YAML on how to do it. Next is garbage collection in K8s, which is important because OOM errors will cause crashes. Here we focus on Java CLI args to tune how much and when we GC. Next we touch on horizontal vs vertical scaling, with some YAML to help. Then we look at using probes for Checks and autoscaling, again with YAML. A last look is Custom metrics. It's decent coverage in Java, but other articles do better for general topics.
BottomLine: Decent Java piece on tuning Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://dev.to/aurelievache/understanding-docker-part-47-docker-bake-4p05
DateReviewed: 2025-01-24
Description: Our article today is actually something called a sketchnote, and it's about Docker Bake. We start by learning it uses HCL as it's preferred format, but will also accept JSON and YAML. It notes it's usage and how having a couple different files might interact, and is illustrated with little doodles. It goes through some examples, and explains how to use variable substitutions. Finally it shows how to do various builds. Very cool approach.
BottomLine: Lightweight illustrated approach to Docker Bake
==
URL reference: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/technology/proton-worldwide-outage-caused-by-kubernetes-migration-software-change/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-25
Description: This article is about a Kubernetes migration that sparked an outage at Proton. At 10am ET the outage started, and affected Proton's email and other services, like VPN and Calendar. The issues lasted about 2 hours. Apparently the change limited connections to the DB servers, causing a load spike and overloading the infrastructure. They say about 50% of the requests failed during the worst of the issue. It took a few hours to diagnose and roll out corrections, and have things ease out.
BottomLine: Good insight into an issue with Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://aws.amazon.com/jp/blogs/gametech/developers-guide-to-operate-game-servers-on-kubernetes-part-2/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-25
Description: This AWS article about using Kubernetes for game servering is interesting. This is part 2 - part 1 is linked, and then we dive in. They talk about software like Open Match and Agones which are some kind of game service infra. Why this is interesting is you can use Kubernetes to build your game servers, and then leverage some of these other tools to help manage players and matches for a good playing experience. They talk a bit about how to approach it, linking to a document on it with a complicated diagram on the overall setup. After a bit more config, they pivot to saving money by using Graviton instances, which is helpful if you can re-target your code binaries. They then go through a few best practices. I think it's an interesting exercise, as game servers and managing matches can be quite challenging and can stress servers.
BottomLine: Interesting piece on running game servers on AWS Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://securityonline.info/exploiting-misconfigurations-in-argo-workflows-for-kubernetes-cluster-takeover/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-26
Description: Our article is going to talk about exploiting misconfigs in Argo workflows to take over Kubernetes clusters, so a security topic. We start with a diagram, and that is always good. We dive in to a short overview of what Argo workflows are, and talk a bit about why they are a tempting target. They identify four main flaws, which are weak default security, more permissions than needed, secrets out where they might not be needed, and the potential for moving laterally. The article is short, but it does suggest mitigations. The "proof" they offer is weak - it's a reverse shell, not even an animated gif of what they did. Worth a quick read.
BottomLine: High level bit on Argo workflow vuln on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://rohankanojia.github.io/articles/2024/12/06/simplify-kubernetes-operator-development-java-operator-sdk
DateReviewed: 2025-01-27
Description: We're going to do some learning about doing a Kubernetes operator on Java. The do a bit of intro, then history and finally a pre-req. They then walk through the dependency chain, before describing how the Operator would work with diagrams (yay). They go through some Java code on how the operator is implemented, then finally how to deploy it to the cluster. And nothing is complete without a test.
BottomLine: Decent walkthrough of using Java to deploy a Kubernetes operator
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/webassembly-and-containers-love-affair-on-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-28
Description: This article is going to talk about WebAssembly, and how it is being deployed on Kubernetes. So, we dive right in and don't talk at all about how WebAssembly works, because I guess that is an exercise for the reader. We're then told that "heavy" containers are bad in some instances, and WebAssembly makes them better. They keep talking about running WebAssembly OR containers, but as we dive in here the artifact we'd be using is an OCI image, which is a container? They don't explain it, but I'm guessing that the WASM bits are a self-contained image, and maybe it works differently then a traditional container? Oh, as we wade in further, this is all based on one talk, and what they are doing is putting the WASM runtime into containerd, so the WASM code bits are running right on the shim, without any extra layers or bits. Now it is actually an interesting tech, and it seems their focus is for sidecars and not running WASM directly as your apps, which changes up the game a bit. But this woould have benefited from a short discussion on WASM and what their use case wase much earlier.
BottomLine: Interesting discussion on using WASM on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://devtron.ai/blog/why-developers-dont-need-kubectl-access-top-5-reasons-to-avoid-it/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-29
Description: In a different approach, this article argues that developers don't need kubectl access to work with Kubernetes. While at first I thought this was mostly security based, it's actually coming from "this is hard for devs", which is a bit odd I think. They do a bit of background work, and then we jump into the meat - why this is hard for devs. First, a steep learning curve, which to some extent is true; but shouldn't there be dev/test areas, surely you aren't deploying on prod, are you? Okay, next up is Human error risks, which is fair but also can be managed with some best practices. Third is Operational overhead -- but isn't deployment part of a dev's area of operations? I mean they should be able to run it in dev/test, and see that it works or report what is broken, right? They then go through inconsistent versions and security concerns, where they talk about various issues. Each of these sections is decent, with at least a couple of paras on why it's cumbersome. So, what to do instead? Ah, Devtron's Kubernetes dashboard, of course. Since this is the pitch part, I'll just say they make 4 decent arguments for their product. My take -- their points aren't bad, but instead of being hostile they could build a case that their product is easier and faster to master than the CLI.
BottomLine: Interesting discussion on devs avoiding the Kubernetes kubectl CLI
==
URL reference: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/cert-revoke-solution/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-30
Description: This article is a walkthrough of a recent Docker Desktop issue fix on MacOS. It seems there was some malware activation, but the article doesn't make clear if that was an image hosted and just affecting Docker or if it was an issue with the desktop version itself. The instructions are pretty clear -- kill a few processes, remove some files, kill any child processes; then close the malware pop-up; and finally install a new version. They have two variations - one a full installer, and one a patch to recent versions, if you don't want to do a full re-install. They also include MDM and Brew instructions.
BottomLine: Interesting look at remediating a Docker issue in the wild
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/5-game-changing-trends-for-2025-kubernetes-leads-the-way/
DateReviewed: 2025-01-31
Description: Our article will be digging a bit into predictions for 2025. After a small bit of background, we're into the meat - prediction one is Gen AI will supercharge software dev, and they talk this for about a para. Agentic AI will transform enterprise ops is prediction two, with LLMs leading the way. Third is Enterprise AI will integrate with systems of record, putting AI in touch with the source of truth. Fourth is a leaning out that will spur modernization of stacks. Last but not least, Kubernetes will be the unifying Hybrid cloud platform. All of our predictions have a para of support, usually explaing how they'll all be implemented on K8s. My take is that I think we're more than a year out from many of these techs being deployed as envisioned, and while they can be helpful it's yet to be seen if they promise as delivered. Also, this seems to be more of a "5 predictions for AI in 2025" rather than general thoughts.
BottomLine: Interesting read if a bit AI slanted on 5 predictions for IT in 2025
==
