URL reference: https://www.forty8fiftylabs.com/blog/automate-to-dominate-boosting-your-kubernetes-clusters/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-01
Description: Our article today talks about how to enhance your automation approach to improve managability for Kubernetes. After some background, we dive into a what is Kubernetes section, before moving on to the role of automation in Kubernetes. They break this down broadly into Infra automation, Business process auto, and finally Robotic process auto. We then go through a section where they laud the benefits of automation.
BottomLine: Decent article at a high level on Kubernetes automation
==
URL reference: https://itnext.io/securing-kubernetes-workloads-a-practical-approach-to-signed-and-encrypted-container-images-ii-7ec72ba95d14
DateReviewed: 2025-05-02
Description: This article talks about using encrypted containers to enhance Kubernetes security. This is part two, and in part one the author talked about using signed and encrypted containers with podman. We dive in and examine Confidential containers, and look into the K8s Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). It features things like trasparent memory encryption of secrets and remote attestation to ensure things are secure before allowing access. The entire Pod is subject to TEE, and they note there are helper processes to set up and control the pod - which makes the kernel, command line and root FS all trusted, along with other pieces. There is a link to some other TEE related info, to fill in gaps. We get a diagram (I love diagrams), and they do acknowledge there are a lot of moving parts with a bit of complexity to make this all work. They refer to the system as Confidential Virtual Machine (CVM), which runs inside the TEE. There are some other services that support the various bits to be considered secure, and these are composed of local agents and remote services that validate things. They also point out that the cluster admin is "untrusted", in that they might not have auth to read secrets -- which means special considerations are in order. They have some YAML snips and do a walkthrough of how to set this up, but it's a bit opaque to me. Basically the gist is that there are decryption keys ONLY available inside of the TEE, and those are then used to decrypt the secrets. It's interesting.
BottomLine: Intro into encrypted containers on Kubernetes with a walkthrough
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/google-cloud/back-to-basics-simplifying-kubernetes-concepts-part-1-f7145fce12ec
DateReviewed: 2025-05-03
Description: This article talks about simplifying the approach to learning Kubernetes, to get going a bit more quickly. The author is going to help us understand by giving us his learning including trial and error to get things working. He starts with Webhooks, paticularly how mutatinig and validating admission hooks work. They go through an example, with code and YAML, to explain how it works hands-on. We finish up this one with usage of the different hooks. Next is API aggregation layer vs CRDs. They explain that the aggregation layer is a way to expand the K8s API, and can do things like add various auths to the cluster. We're taken through a YAML snip on setting it up. On the CRD side, he has another article he links to for it, cleaning up with a chart of where you would use each one. They also cover Ingress vs Gateway API and StatefulSets vs Deployments vs DaemonSets. Actually a good intro to some more complex K8s topics.
BottomLine: Strong simple introduction to advanced Kubernetes topics
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@jordan_denison/the-hidden-security-risk-of-ssl-termination-in-kubernetes-why-you-should-terminate-at-the-istio-b57d413a631e
DateReviewed: 2025-05-04
Description: Our article today will argue that where we terminate SSL encryption makes a difference. Specifically, they argue against terminating SSL on something like the AWS LoadBalancer, and instead bringing it to the service mesh. We dive in with a review of service mesh - what we might need it for and why. They show how some people do it, and argue that the LB -> mesh traffic being in the clear is a security weakness. They mention it breaks some assumptions and best practices. It then gives an oddly formatted list of pros and cons, before going through the tradeoffs. It's an interesting piece.
BottomLine: Good argument for bringing SSL to your service mesh rather then the vendor LB for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/the-growing-significance-of-observability-in-cloud-native-environments/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-05
Description: This article sheds light on new developments around observability in the cloud, along with walking us through how to set it up. We dive in with an example issue, where purchase transactions are failing, but the logs don't point to the issue directly; only after a few hours is a payment API identified. We then pivot to how AI pieces can help us, by observing issues that logs might not otherwise percieve. They also point to the ability to pinpoing root causes by automation. We then move onto open standards, and they talk about OpenTelemetry and open source observability standards. We then go through a 3 step process to deploy OpenTelemetry, to get things started. To tie things up, they touch on DevSecOps and FinOps as emerging areas to consider.
BottomLine: Interesting discussions about a more hands-on approach to Observability in Kubernetes and Cloud Native in general
==
URL reference: https://www.groundcover.com/blog/istio-architecture
DateReviewed: 2025-05-06
Description: Today's article dives into service mesh with a look at Istio. We start with a small bit of background, before diving into a bit on What is Istio. Next, we go through why Istio service mesh matters for Kubernetes, doing a bit of a dive there. Then we pivot to Istio arch and components, going through a number of configs and interations. We then look at benefits and limitations, before looking at the future of service mesh. Overall a good intro.
BottomLine: Very solid intro to Service Mesh on Kubernetes looking at Istio
==
URL reference: https://kubesphere.medium.com/cloud-native-weekly-how-kubernetes-is-shaping-the-future-of-ai-and-cloud-innovation-7778e481346f
DateReviewed: 2025-05-07
Description: This article is more of a general reporting piece, looking at a range of new tech and announcements in the Kubernetes area. We start off with 4 open source projects, each summarized in a para, before dipping into a few tech articles, finishing up with newly released updates.
BottomLine: Good survey piece talking about a number of Kubernetes related technologies
==
URL reference: https://www.forbes.com/sites/adrianbridgwater/2025/03/17/okay-ai-solo-kagent-is-an-agentic-ai-framework-for-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-08
Description: Our article today will dabble a bit into the area of AI. We're lookinga at a company called Solo which is combining Kubernetes with AI as an agent, to provide workflow tasks, with a thing called kagent. It's a combo of dev tools, AI agents and bits needed to build agents in a K8s env. The company claims it helps DevOps and platform engineers build and run AI agents in Kubernetes. It talks a bit at a high level, but then says they are using MCP as the building blocks, and they explain a bit of how MCP works. There is a bit of talk on securiyt and observability, and then talk about self-serve computing, all at a very high level. The claim is that this tool will reduce the learning curve. My take is that there isn't a lot of details, but lots of hype.
BottomLine: Interesting read on new AI agent builder
==
URL reference: https://dzone.com/articles/pen-source-path-to-personal-professional-growth
DateReviewed: 2025-05-09
Description: The article we'll dive into today examines Open Source, and how tha can help you personally and professionally. We have a short bit of lead-in, and then dive in - why invest time into open source? They talk about not only being personally fulfilling, but all of the tools and ecosystems that are in open source. We then tackle six reasons to contribute, which they list out and then explain in short paras for each. They then explain how to contribute, again listing the steps for those new to the scene. They even have some places where you might get a start. I love the approach, and I recommend for people looking to get their feet wet.
BottomLine: A great primer on getting involved with Open Source
==
URL reference: https://zededa.com/resources/white-papers/secure-zero-touch-kubernetes-orchestration-for-the-distributed-edge/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-10
Description: Today's article is actually a white paper, which aims to talk about what they call "secure zero touch" Kubernetes, aimed at the edge. The intro is even quite lengthy, and has a diagram where they talk about user and service provider edge, collectively labelled the distributed edge. They talk about K8s and edge devices, and abit about the company that authored this paper. They dive in a bit on the Edge, and then talk about why to use Kubernetes at the edge. Each piece is several paragraphs, and it is all well written. They argue that EVE-OS should be the OS of choice, and even include a diagram of the zero-trust features of the OS. There are a few more sections, building towards using the author company's version of K8s to run your edge platform. It feels very enterprise oriented, and that is fine, but might not be for everyone.
BottomLine: White paper on a Kubernetes edge offering for Enterprise
==
URL reference: https://accuknox.com/blog/kubernetes-vulnerabilities
DateReviewed: 2025-05-11
Description: Our article today is going to surface what they claim are the top 5 Kubernetes vulnerabilities. We start with a quick intro into Kubernetes security, then a short bit on how to secure infra. Now we dive into the vulns - they start by stating the vuln, then a bit of details, and finally a pro tip to help you avoid it. We go through misconfigs, access to etcd, 3rd party depends, DoS attacks, and finally compliance issues during container adoption. Then they do a very deep dive into vuln scanning, which is almost as long as the rest of the article up until this point. It could and probably should have been it's own article. The first part is strong and I like it; the second part felt long and tacked on.
BottomLine: Good discussion about the top 5 Kubernetes vulnerabilities of 2024
==
URL reference: https://www.wiz.io/reports/kubernetes-security-report-2025#finding-1
DateReviewed: 2025-05-12
Description: Today, our article is a quick-fact point form like summary. It has a link to the full report, but is like a lightning round exec summary. Diving in, it is a collection of "facts" with a small blurb and a linked tweet. First fact is new clusters are targeted at lightning speed, second is critical vulns are declining, third is security feature adoption has room for improvement, and las but not least Kubernetes verssion maint is advancing. They tie it up with a short conclusion. I'm not usually a fan of gimmicks, but this one is not bad.
BottomLine: Short fact based Kubernetes security report summary w link to full report
==
URL reference: https://edera.dev/stories/styrolite
DateReviewed: 2025-05-13
Description: Our article today is about a new runtime container from Edera, called Styrolite. The idea is a simple container runtime which is programatically able to be used. They go through the high and low level bits of how their container runtime actually works, which they think is a better fit for their overall system. They talk about PIDs and UID/GIDs, various namespaces like time and network, and how they are shared or not. They then show how to create a container programmatically, with a composed call to a function. They also talk briefly about use cases and security. My take is it is neat sounding, and I might try it out.
BottomLine: Introduction of a new container runtime for Kubernetes called Styrolite
==
URL reference: https://itnext.io/container-network-interface-cni-in-kubernetes-an-introduction-6cd453b622bd
DateReviewed: 2025-05-14
Description: Today we have an article that is an intro to CNI, or at least purpots to be. I honestly think it's a decent article, but it's a bit too long and verbose to be an intro in my mind, so I'll say that upfront. It start with the basics, sprinkles in lots of decent diagrams, and a decent amount of explaination. It talks in detail about some of the nitty gritty stuff. It's a great article, but it's more of a complete walkthrough of setting up CNI.
BottomLine: Great walkthrough of setting up CNI in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://informationsecuritybuzz.com/ingressnightmare-crit-kubernetes-flaws/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-15
Description: This article tries to give us some insights into IngressNightmare, the serious Kubernetes flaw discovered recently. We dive right in, where they start talking about five critical flaws in the Nginx controller, which puts 6000+ clusters at risk. They name off the CVEs, which are all RCE, which are bad - they include "cluster takeover". Estimates say that about 43% of deployments are vulnerable. They say since it's one of the external facing pieces of the K8s pie, it being vulnerable is more critical. What's most important is that it does require a bit of access on the network, but then requires no admin or credentials at all to get good access. The cause, it seems, is our old friend lack of input sanitization. The article waxes on a bit about fallout, but it's pretty good at explaining the urgency which people should address it in.
BottomLine: Good warning of the severity of IngressNightmare to Kubernetes clusters
==
URL reference: https://www.infoworld.com/article/3854747/what-next-for-wasi-on-azure-kubernetes-service.html
DateReviewed: 2025-05-16
Description: This article dives into the options you have if you are using Azures exprimental WASI node pools, as they are deprecated as of Jan 2025. There are two different options available, and this article will explore them. First, we start by going through why this is happening -- mostly because a supporting project is now unmaintained. To do the work, they used a Rust project called Krustlets to build WebAssembly ready Kubelets, so they have to change strategies. One way is using SpinKube to run WebAssembly, the other is using WASI microservices on AKS with wasmCloud. They spill a lot of ink on these - 10 paras on the first, and 3 on the second, with a bit of comparison on the end. Lots of points and a bit of advice on migration makes it's way into the article. Decent approach to this topic.
BottomLine: Alternatives for WebAssembly as Azure Kubernetes changes things up
==
URL reference: https://brainupgrade.in/kubernetes-security-best-practices/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-17
Description: So, today we don't have an article so much as a curated point form list, which is a collection of Kubernetes best practices it seems. We do get a bit of intro, telling us security is important and that Kubernetes has threats because it's dyanmic. We then dive into the lists; giving them their fair shake, each item has at least three points, and the items are decent. They touch on RBAC, securing API access, using PSS, enabling Network policies, scanning and securing container images, audit logging, secrets management and finally runtime secrity. The topics are good, but more depth would be helpful.
BottomLine: Good intro to Security best practices for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://itnext.io/one-giant-kubernetes-cluster-for-everything-3c84eb0c6810
DateReviewed: 2025-05-18
Description: I actually love this article - it digs into a good topic, namely should you have a giant K8s cluster that has everything in it? It's actually a great approach, looking at both why it's a good thing, and also why you might not want to do it. We start with a bit of background -- which is how big your cluster should be on "day 0". So, they dive in to why one big cluster is better - resource util is better, lower op overhead, easier network and service comms, simple governance and cost efficiency -- all given a couple paras of support. Then we look at downsides, like larger blast radius, complex multi-tenancy mgmt, scalability limits and cluster-wide objects, again, each getting a couple paras. They then look at vClusters, and how that might help be a more "ideal" size. They explain a bit of what it is, and how it helps over the other things talked about, and goes a bit into "different" cluster needs. A good piece to consider sizing on K8s.
BottomLine: Good piece that touches pros and cons of larger Kubernetes and gives an alternative
==
URL reference: https://ptuladhar3.medium.com/ingress-nginx-nightmare-cve-2025-1974-are-you-affected-e2c2392f763a
DateReviewed: 2025-05-19
Description: Our article today is about a recent Kubernetes security issue, IngressNightmare. It aims to answer the question are you affected, and if so, how do you mitigate the issue. First, the explain the overview, and then dive into the details, which is that it's a shared library sent with an admission controller request, which will ingest the shared lib. To determine if your vulnerable, they list a number of version numbers and ranges which are affected, along with a script to run to flag potential matches. The easy mitigation is upgrading, but they have a few options for people not able to upgrade right away. Monitoring for the exploit, restricting network ability, and even the possibility to disable the admission controller. Well done piece.
BottomLine: Awesome article on what IngressNightmare on Kubernetes is and if you might be affected
==
URL reference: https://blog.fka.dev/blog/2025-03-27-mcp-inspector-vs-mcp-tools/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-20
Description: This article contrasts two suites for building MCP tools. MCP is the way an AI can interface to an API or other tool to perform actions or answer questions. The tools spotlighter here are Official MCP inspector and MCP Tools. They do a good job, looking through some various use cases where one would be better than the other; 4 Tools cases, and 3 official inspector. They dig in quite deep, and give a good feeling for which one you might want to use.
BottomLine: Good intro to two MCP tools you might use to integrate AI into your development
==
URL reference: https://www.reddit.com/r/mcp/comments/1jno64h/structured_humanintheloop_agent_workflow_with_mcp/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-21
Description: This is a discussion of using AI with a human to do some assistance to a human to get specific things done. The question is detailed, and a few answers dive deep, but it's clear this is an emerging topic.
BottomLine: Interesting Reddit chat on using AI with human in the loop agent workflow
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2025/03/28/cedar-a-new-approach-to-policy-management-for-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-22
Description: Our article today is a toe dip into a new policy approach called Cedar. The basic idea seems to be of extending and unifying how access are granted or denied, with the consideration that this all be done in a single language. The do include a diagram, which is bonus points, showing that Cedar does function as a webhook at certain points. We get a feature list, some real world applications that might use it, and a bit of a look forward to see what else we can do. Actually a great intro.
BottomLine: Quick intro to Cedar, a new way to do Kubernetes policies
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/has-vmware-finally-caught-up-with-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-23
Description: The premise of this article is whether VMware has "caught up" with Kubernetes. The claim is that some of the features of VMware weren't well known or used, and while a good way to get started in Kubernetes, meant you weren't fully using the platform. So post Broadcom, they rolled out VMware Cloud Foundation, to have a single platform. We then get some marketing-speak from a manager, before a bit that explains that Tanzu bits have been added to VCF. My take is that it's hard to talk about VMware post-Broadcom without mentioning the weird and expensive licence changes, but this article manages to completely ignore that.
BottomLine: Marketing speak about VMware re-alignment towards Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.tigera.io/blog/calico-whisker-your-new-ally-in-network-observability/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-24
Description: Today's article talks about a new GUI entrant, Whisker. An add on to Calico, Whisker helps visualize your network flows so you can see what is, and isn't, working. There is 3 parts - the Whisker UI, the backend, and the Goldmane gRPC API server that powers the system. They go into why you might need Whisker, and have some animated screenshots to give a quick snapshot of how it works. 
BottomLine: Interesting intro to a new network visualization tool for Calico/Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/how-to-put-guardrails-around-containerized-llms-on-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-25
Description: In keeping with hot things, today our article is a dive into AI, through guardrails on LLMs in containers. We start with some background, talking about some threats and how LLMs are generally deployed. A big threat is prompt injection, but multiple layers of security are needed. We get a diagram along with guardrails and network restrictions to reduce the attack surface. We then dive in, with them explaining what prompt injection can do, things like extracting confidential info or working around content filters. They present Nvidia guardrails as way to filter input, do content enforcement, and adaptively learn. There's a bit more discussion of how to do this, and the effects, but they are mostly more examples and details. Good topic and decent approach
BottomLine: Good article on using Kubernetes with LLM guardrails
==
URL reference: https://bitcoinworld.co.in/unlock-kubernetes-management-plural-platform/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-26
Description: Our article today is an intro to Plural, a way to manage multiple Kubernetes clusters more easily. We start with a bit of background, and then launch into a bit about Plural. The idea is to manage all of your clusters from one spot. As a bonus, it includes AI smart optimization and proactive problem solving. Each of these points has a couple paras, so they are well explained. My take is that it's a bit of a puff piece and doesn't contain a lot of tech detail, but at a high level it seems interesting.
BottomLine: Intro to a new player in the multiple cluster manager space - Plural
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/chainguard-takes-aim-at-vulnerable-java-libraries/
DateReviewed: 2025-05-27
Description: This article looks at Java with a Chainguard lens. They announced they'll be tackling this with language libraries, with the aim of eliminating malware and minimizing the attack surface. They note many times things are built on a specifice dev's laptop, and then uploaded, so compromising the right person can introduce a bad library or stack piece. They also said that most devs use public repos of libs, and the emphasis is on ease of use and not security. Chainguard's approach is to grab source and build the libs from there, ensuring that they are secure in that way. Basically, the focus is on clean libs with known source, which gives assurance of what you are running. They do talk a bit about how this scales out, which is a bit more complex.
BottomLine: Good initial view of Chainguard libs for Java developers
==
