
URL reference: https://kubesphere.medium.com/cloud-native-weekly-how-kubernetes-became-the-new-linux-b47e3742a2b0
DateReviewed: 2025-12-01
Description: Our article today has a few stories, as it's a wrap for the week, but our interest is on the K8s being the new Linux. The newsletter has a bunch of basket categories, including Cloud Native highlights, Technical practices, and Open Source project recommendations. Upfront they have two projects, one of which tries to enable more fine-grained control. In tech practice, there are three artcile summaries, including our new Linux one. They make the strong point that now orgs are customizing K8s highly, even adopting specialized Kernels to tune things up. There are also orgs that are building pieces that are widely used. We close up with 4 projects, including Kftray, a way to manage runtime envs from a visual tool.
BottomLine: Decent coverage and overviews of many Kubernetes and Cloud Native items
==
URL reference: https://www.emadibrahim.com/k8s-guide
DateReviewed: 2025-12-02
Description: This is a guide to Kubernetes in production - well thought out, in various chapters, and quite beefy. I only skimmed it so far, but it is well set up and also well organized, you can tell they put a lot of thought into the appraoch and layout. Definately a thing to check out.
BottomLine: A substantial guide to running Kubernetes in production
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2025/11/28/runc-container-breakout-vulnerabilities-a-technical-overview/
DateReviewed: 2025-12-03
Description: Today's article is about vulnerabilities in runc that were recently disclosed. Our article starts with a bit of background, and then we dive into the vulns - and there are three of them. First is an issue with how masked paths function, and can mean a well chosen mount can cause a breakout or host crash. Next issue is a similar problem with /dev/console based mounts, allowing read/write access to a sensititve filesystem. The final issue is more complex, allowing bypass of LSM (linux security modules) and then allows redirected writes which can cause host crashes or container breakouts. They talk a bit about exploitation scenarios, the biggest of which is multi-tenant scenarios, where one tenant can gain access to containers they don't own. We then go through affected versions and then mitigations, which include not using the root user in the container, adding things like SELinux or AppArmor, and using namespaces without the host root user mapped into it. They do mention other runtimes are also affected.
BottomLine: Good walkthrough of runc issues and mitigations on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://dzone.com/articles/docker-vs-kubernetes-showdown
DateReviewed: 2025-12-04
Description: Our article today is going to be a comparison of Kubernetes vs Docker as supporting software. We start with a bit of background before diving into Docker, and what it's all about. It goes through a few of the highlights of Docker, including it being lightweight, giving apps isolation, supporting CI/CD and having a way to easily build images with Docker compose. We then pivot to Kubernetes, along with its highlights - HA, self healing, load balancing, and rolling updates to name a few. They position Docker as the lighter weight cousin, for developing and doing small apps, where K8s should be used for big apps in production. They also do point out they can be used together, as they have different focus. 
BottomLine: Good review of where to use Docker vs Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://vpodk.com/from-cloud-native-to-ai-native-why-your-infrastructure-must-be-rebuilt-for-intelligence/
DateReviewed: 2025-12-05
Description: Today's article is on how AI might change our underlying infrastructure. We start with a bit of background, focused on cloud providers and their offerings now. They say that MLOps, or the ingestion/train/inference cycle is something that CPU centric stacks don't meet. The shift, they claim, is going to move from CPUs to GPUs, or Graphical processing units. They mention that GPUs, having specialized cores have an advantage over typical CPUs. They mention that Kubernetes is key here; and making sure that the GPUs aren't idle or underutilized is critical. They also play up Vector databases, which is what they say AI will leverage to access data. The piece goes on for a bit more, but it is very abstract and doesn't really dive into how to operationalize any of these interesting ideas.
BottomLine: Good thinkpiece, but is very abstract on AI infra shifts
==
URL reference: https://dev.to/aws-builders/amazon-eks-capabilities-quick-summary-1po7
DateReviewed: 2025-12-06
Description: This article is a quick summary of EKS capabilities by a third party. The focus is a recently introduced feature called EKS Auto mode, which simplifies the management of Kubernetes infra; and talk about new additions like ArgoCD and other tools. The pros they say are that you don't pay for CD or the tools, because you aren't running them; the cons are that it is charged as part of EKS capability pricing, and you can't customize them. The piece also includes a nice infographic about the offerings.
BottomLine: Short piece about new EKS auto mode and related offerings
==
URL reference: https://www.theregister.com/2025/12/02/ingress_nginx_opinion/
DateReviewed: 2025-12-07
Description: This is more opinion piece than article, but it brings up a good question - should Open Source projects be paid for in some way? This paticular article focuses on Ingress Nginx, which is winding down in March due to lack of maintainer interest. The reason this is a big deal is that this particular tool has been used extensively throughout the K8s ecosystem, but it was bleeding maintainers for years and was kept on life support for a while until finally being retired by CNCF in the next few months. Could funding/paying devs helped? It could, but plumbing is challenging and not as sexy, so it is harder.
BottomLine: Discussion piece on whether Open Source should be formally funded
==
URL reference: https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-66404
DateReviewed: 2025-12-08
Description: This article is a short piece on a CVE that is present in the MCP Server in Kubernetes. This server allows connection for management purposes, usually from an AI agent. The issue is that in one case, the server takes user input and without validation uses it a shell interpreter, allowing escape characters to be sent through and possibly compromising the pod where the command is run. The issue is fixed in MCP server v2.9.8.
BottomLine: A security issue in MCP on Kubernetes allows unintended shell command execution
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/knative-has-finally-graduated-from-the-cncf/
DateReviewed: 2025-12-09
Description: Our article today talks about the graduation of Knative, the Kubernetes native tool for building, deploying and running serverless and event-driven apps. We start with a bit of background, and I'll note graduating in this case means "out of beta", or fully supported. We even get a quote from the co-founder of the project! The article now explains the core of Knative - serving and eventing, which allows containerized apps to scale to zero if not in use. Knative becomes esentially the glue that binds event-driven architectures together. The hope is that this will be an alternative to AWS Lambda and Azure functions as ways of doing serverless, which have different approaches and philosophies.
BottomLine: Announcment and a bit about Knative - the CNCF take on serverless
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@dmosyan/kubernetes-services-explained-b0502ace45c7
DateReviewed: 2025-12-10
Description: This article is a mix of hands on and background explaination, centered around Kubernetes services. We start with an overview, where the author explains a bit about how pods function and why we need services at all. It also explains how a service works broadly, and mixes in a bit of YAML to illustrate. We dive more into services, and he presents a chart with the different kinds, with a short blurb on how they work. They walk us through setting up a sample service, including YAML and explaining what needs to be done. He then explains why we should use DNS, as the IP addresses can change as pods are created and destroyed.
BottomLine: Good quick intro to setting up a Kubernetes service
==
URL reference: https://labs.iximiuz.com/courses/computer-networking-fundamentals
DateReviewed: 2025-12-11
Description: Our article for today is actually a short ad for a course on Computer Networking. This course is part of a series of courses by Ivan Velichko, and this one and many others are provided for free. The blurb gives a high level description of what the course covers, along with a number of points which cover moer specific parts of networking, like LANs, bridges and switches, and differences between L2 and L3.
BottomLine: Good blurb for a free course on Computer Networking
==
