
URL reference: https://www.devopschat.co/articles/spotlight-on-policy-working-group
DateReviewed: 2025-11-01
Description: This article talks a bit about the Policy Working Group, the Kubernetes community org dedicated to K8s policies. This article gives an overview and a bit of an outline on the work, with a link to an interview with the group members.
BottomLine: Interesting insight into how Policies are approached by the Kubernetes community
==
URL reference: https://kodekloud.com/blog/kubernetes-architecture-explained/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-02
Description: Today's article is a bit of a unicorn - long, in depth, and pretty well written. We start with a short intro, where they explain how they'll tackle this subject. They start with a multi-para on what is K8s arch, the big picture overview, before diving into the cluster as a foundation and looking at how they work. After a bit more on clusters, we pivto to Control Plane components, where they outline the various bits in dives and then explain how they work together. We next look at worker node components, and they look at what makes that up and how they fit into the K8s arch. They look at pods, do a deep dive into how applications run on K8s, and talk about differences between workers and control nodes, before including a small pitch for their visual manager tool.
BottomLine: Very good walkthrough of many of the pieces of Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-health.html
DateReviewed: 2025-11-03
Description: This is a hands-on lab, where you add health reports in to your microservices. It has a linked Git repo, and ways to do the exercises on Window, Mac and Linux. It has a couple ways to run the lab, including on the webpage, which is pretty cool. Recommended.
BottomLine: Lab which shows you how to add health reports to microservices
==
URL reference: https://www.devopschat.co/articles/beyond-namespaces-why-kubernetes-needs-real-workload-isolation
DateReviewed: 2025-11-04
Description: So, this is not actually the article, but a three paragraph summary of the article, which does sound interesting. They talk about the fact that namespacs and the Kubernetes approach to workload isolation is decent but not perfect -- there are holes that errant apps can fall into, causing performance issues and more. It appears they propose an alternative, but since the linked article is sign-in only, we don't know.
BottomLine: Interesting topic but only a summary linking to a sign in wall
==
URL reference: https://www.latacora.com/blog/2025/09/22/introducing-replik8s/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-05
Description: Today's article talks about replik8s, an open source tool while allows users to clone their cluster (log) data to do analysis on it. We start with a bit of background on the company, and then they explain how their original use case was to capture data from diverse sources for future queries. They do a bit of a walkthrough, starting with what they call snapshots, which is the process to grab data from a Kubernetes cluster. You can then serve the data, which functions as a "mirror" of the data collected in the snapshot for interrogation. You can query with Kubernetes tools, or use tools that would work against a K8s cluster, like Trivy. They have a way, through multiple snapshots, to allow an MCP server to interact with an AI to look into changes over time. Last but not least,  you can visualize the data with a web-based "notebook" to allow easy looks into the whole cluster. Interesting tool.
BottomLine: Intro and brief walkthrough of new open source Replik8s tool for Kubernetes logging and API data
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/google-cloud/how-i-made-an-mcp-server-that-saves-me-an-hour-per-week-be4752e07dd5
DateReviewed: 2025-11-06
Description: This article dives into how to set up MCP servers for allowing access into services for AI. First we get a bit of background on the author and how this idea came to them, from sessions they do. For this piece, they look at the challenge that doing a podcast and publishing it cause, and how automation or AI could help. They outline all of the steps they do, and explain a lot of them are manual bits of work to do. For one task, they used AI to summarize and produce show notes and social media drafts, which origianlly took a lot of time to do. They mention they still do more edits before using them, but getting the base stuff done is much faster. They one issue was that it only helped THEM, and not their collabs who did other episodes. They first thought about an ideal approach, but then settled into a more practical one, of using MCP along side Gemini CLI, which they already used. And the Podcast assistant MCP is born. They note that the original tool did all steps in sequence, but the MCP tool can do any step at any time, meaning you can omit steps (like using a manual show notes if you have it). This boils down to 4 functions, which in the end produce draft show notes and social media posts for review. They then talk about deployment and various considerations, including security. The idea is to have a workflow that works. Good read.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of using MCP and AI to complete a practical task
==
URL reference: https://vegastack.com/community/guides/kubernetes-secrets-enterprise-security-implementation
DateReviewed: 2025-11-07
Description: The article on tap today looks at secret management in the enterprise context. They explain tha by using K8s in a large enterprise, it can quickly turn into a nightmare, having to manage the secrets for all apps in a secure way. Add in things like rotation and having to abide by proper govenance policies, it can be prohibitive. After a bit more background, we get to the actual proposals - things like an external secrets operator, automatic rotation, and fine grained access control policies, among many others. They recommend using an integrated platform, for ease of use and consistency. They claim this can cut security incidents and save time and money. Interesting piece.
BottomLine: Article on issues surrounding Enterprise secrets in Kubernetes and how to approach them
==
URL reference: https://community.hpe.com/t5/the-cloud-experience-everywhere/companies-are-moving-to-kubernetes-but-secrets-security-can-be/ba-p/7254840
DateReviewed: 2025-11-08
Description: Our article postulates about secret security with the adoption of Kubernetes to deploy to. After a bit of background, we're down to brass tacks - why does secret mgmt need attention? They point out older practices like hardcoded creds or hand-rotated ones aren't keeping up with today's envs. They point out how things can be risky, and explain it's our job to manage such risk. What they advance to help with this is the Secrets store CSI Driver, which allows secrets to be stored in an extrenal store. It checks all the boxes - encryption, rotation, granualar access and audit logging. They give some real world example use cases, talk strategic benefits before finishing up with talking about security as scale.
BottomLine: Interesting approach to secret security on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://docs.cosmonic.com/securely-deploy-mcp-on-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-09
Description: Today's article does a dive into deploying MCP securely on Kubernetes. They talk about the Model Context Protocol, how it began and point out the issues it can have as background. They talk about using WASM to mitigate risks, and show us a diagram of dataflows. This is a walkthrough, so they start with the bits we'll need to get this working, including NodeJS, NPM and wash. We need also to grab a plugin, the OpenAPI2MCP connector, to have things happen. They go through setting up our dev area we will connect MCP to, generate the configs, and finally dig into the MCP server. We spin up the MCP server, and then we connect to a model so we can get work done. They use Goose as the client, which can conect to a lot of models, and explain how ngrok is set up to forward locally. You have to configure Goose, which they talk about, and when that is done, we are ready to go. We can then ask a question and the model will return an answer. Now that this is done, we can publish and make available our model as an OCI image. They then show how to do this, so anyone can ask your model questions.
BottomLine: Great walkthrough of setting up AI to MCP securely on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://github.com/patrickdappollonio/mcp-kubernetes-ro
DateReviewed: 2025-11-10
Description: At first, I misunderstood what this was - I thought it was an MCP server for general use, but wouldn't make changes to the far end; but it's actually a Kubernetes MCP, that allows you to get insight into your K8s cluster without worrying that the model will update your deployed workloads. It does everything you'd think, like getting pods/nodes/resources, and it doesn't depend on kubectl. Supports namespaces and all kinds of bells and whistles. Installs a bunch of different ways, including NPM and Docker image, and just needs a basic config to get going. Interesting tool.
BottomLine: Repo for a tool to use AI to inspect your running Kubernetes cluster in a read-only way
==
URL reference:  https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/AzureInfrastructureBlog/zero-trust-kubernetes-enforcing-security--multi-tenancy-with-custom-admission-we/4466646
DateReviewed: 2025-11-11
Description: Today's article talks about Zero Trust Kubernetes and using webhooks to help with security and multi-tenancy. The focus here is on Admission webhooks, and what we can do with them to ensure that workloads conform to what we expect before launching them. They talk about validating and mutating controllers, that let you check and possibly change what is going to be run. They advocate partnering this with Kyverno and OPA gatekeeper so you have Policy as code and a YAML policy engine to help you out. They lay out a number of solid policies you should consider rolling out in your cluster. They even do a diagram of how things work, tracing a request through the API server and onto the Zero-trust webhook controller before it gets sent to a Kubernetes pod for fullfillment. They have a 5 step walkthrough, with YAML snips included, to get things set up. Finally they have a section on Multi-tenant and shared envs, including YAML snips before closing off with best practices. Good read.
BottomLine: Interesting article on setting up workload security on Kubernetes with admission controllers
==
URL reference: https://community-charts.github.io/blog/actualbudget-chart-version-1.8.4-released
DateReviewed: 2025-11-12
Description: This is a blog entry on the newest version of the actualbudget chart. Truth be told, I thought these charts were to keep your Kubernetes cluster costs under control, but it's actually for a home focused budgeting software package which looks very slick. The bump here is aimed at bringing the Helm managed deployment to the very latest version. Quite neat, will try it.
BottomLine: Short blog on the actualbudget Helm chart
==
URL reference: https://dev.to/aws-builders/how-i-overlooked-the-problem-and-shot-myself-in-the-foot-2ok8
DateReviewed: 2025-11-13
Description: This is a great hands-on story about the pitfalls about carefully planning but not seeing something and the effect of that biting you. Our story starts simply, where the author is migrating from IAM users to SSO on AWS; they were even careful, and noted they disabled the IAM users for about a month before deleting them, to ensure things were all working as expected. The wrinkle was that they had used KMS, and the key was tied to one of the now deleted IAM users. He thought he had a solution -- blow away the existing Key and let TF recreate it, and he got no errors, so success, right? Turns out there is a restriction here, so he'd actually need to get access back to the KMS keys. Reaching out to AWS support, there were some hoops (and manual juggling) needed to get things working. The end result is that he noted he needed to do the KMS key bits BEFORE deleting the IAM users - lesson learned. Good story.
BottomLine: Awesome narration of an odd issue with a small improvement and how it was resolved
==
URL reference: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/10/20/seven-kubernetes-pitfalls-and-how-to-avoid/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-14
Description: I kinda love this article; it's about stuff that can go wrong in Kubernetes and how to try to avoid it. After a bit of background, we dive into the meat, and it has a format - the pitfall, a bit of context, how to avoid it, and a short my reality check to give you assurance. The seven things that can bite you are - skipping resource requests/limits, using liveness and readiness probes right, relying on container logs, treating dev and prod the exact same, leaving old stuff around, diving too deep into networking stuff too soon, and finally, going too light on security and RBAC. Love the practical perspective on this.
BottomLine: Great article on common things that bite us using Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://saikiranpikili.medium.com/critical-security-warning-for-kubernetes-users-ae7a620ef6e0
DateReviewed: 2025-11-15
Description: This is a decent and concise piece on a critical vuln in Kubernetes Ingress. They start with a naming of the vuln, then a quick check to see if you may be affected, before we get into the nitty gritty. They talk about what Ingress Nginx is, what the issue is, and how serious it is. Then it does a more detailed command to see if you are using the serious feature that is affected. They then go through possible mitigations. Good piece.
BottomLine: Short but strong piece on serious Kubernetes Ingress issue
==
URL reference: https://zigmax.net/cloud-native-rejekts-na-2025/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-16
Description: Today's article is some highlights from the Cloud rejekts alternae conference. I love the way that they approached this - they picked their top 5 presentations, and gave a short blurb on each. They included a real world container escape story, talking about using GPUs in you K8s cluster, a bit about IDPs, and a couple related to security and AI. Pretty cool retrospective, good to see if a new rejekts would be worth considering going to.
BottomLine: Recap on 5 good presentations at a Kubernetes convention
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@panstou/building-a-high-availability-kubernetes-stack-with-rancher-rke2-and-cilium-7aee1da07dc1
DateReviewed: 2025-11-17
Description: Our article today is about building a High Avail. Kubernetes stack that includes Rancher, RKE2 and Cilium. This is part 2 of a series, and we start by going over a few objectives, before going over the prereqs and doing an Arch overview. Finally we dig into the hands-on, which is done as 4 main steps. Step one is setting up HA proxy and keepalived, which we do the install at the CLI, config each of HA proxy and keepalived, and restart the daemons. Step two is to create the cluster in the Rancher GUI, which they walk us through the steps. Step three is registering the Nodes to Rancher, which is slightly different on master and worker nodes, but they show us both aspects. The final step we check in the GUI that things are Active and run some CLI commands to ensure things are working properly. They tie up with some troubleshooting tips an a summary of what we've accomplished.
BottomLine: Good walkthrough of setting up HA Kubernetes with Rancher
==
URL reference: https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/2025/11/12/ingress-nginx-retirement/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-18
Description: Today's article is about the upcoming retirement of Ingress Nginx, and how to prepare for it. Basically it'll be maintained somewhat until March of 2026, but after that it won't get more releases or security updates at all. The main recommendation is to move to Gateway API, but they do note there are a number of other Ingress controller alternatives available. They dive a bit into Ingress and talk about how the Nginx Ingress controller was an early example with a lot of flexibilty and good independence from any paticular provider. Next we pivot to history and challenges, where they remark that early flexibility allowed configs that were considered security issues later on. One of the big hurdles was the small number of devs working on it, and the fact they moved from Nginx to the Gateway API as their main focus. We now land on current state and next steps, where the Kubernetes governance groups have decided to retire the project rather than keep encouraging people to use a project that is not actively maintained. They explain that the artifacts will be accessible, just not recommended to use. They include instructions on how to check if you are running it, and thanks to the maintainers for their efforts up until now.
BottomLine: Good overview of why Nginx Ingress is retiring from Kubernetes and what to do to prepare
==
URL reference: https://nirmata.com/2025/10/27/the-policy-as-code-ai-agent-smarter-kubernetes-governance-security/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-18
Description: This article leans on AI to help you author Policy as Code with an agent, where you describe in English what you want and leverage AI to write the code. We start with some background, and then dive into the agent. The idea is that it produces valid and testable Kyverno policies that lighten the load on your developers. The next section talks about the why, which mentions not needing Kyveno experts and feeling confident through testing. The next section details that it works flexibly, so can use a CLI interface as well as an integrated MCP server if you want to integrate it that way. They talk about some expected outcomes, including shifting left w/o burdening devs among some other wins. 
BottomLine: Interesting option for doing Kyveno Policy as Code in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://virtualizationreview.com/articles/2025/11/13/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america-2025-day-1.aspx?Page=2
DateReviewed: 2025-11-19
Description: Our article today is a quick summary of the events of KubeCon day 1. Oddly the link is to page 2, so if we go back we see them lay the groundwork for the conf by talking attendance and opening remarks, before moving on to the key theme - convergence of Cloud Native and AI. CNCF announced an initiative to help K8s embrace AI, and there were some talks around it to. There was also some sessions around security and supply chain issues, and how to improve there. Then a bullet point section on industry keynotes and sponsored sessions, with the title and speaker noted, and a quick recap of evening events. Overall a good read.
BottomLine: Summary of what went down on day one of KubeCon NA in 2025
==
URL reference: https://huyenchip.com/2021/09/13/data-science-infrastructure
DateReviewed: 2025-11-20
Description: Today's article is about why Data Scientists don't need to know Kubernetes. The thesis here is that DataSci's should be focused on their stack, and not what their stack runs on, and can use a infra abstraction tool to avoid knowing what the underlying bits are doing. They post a couple of job ads, and talk about the expectation that DataSci people should be "full stack". It seems our author had a change of heart, expecting at first to know low-level infra, then pivoting to not have to worry about it. He frames the need to know things as the difference between dev and prod, where you might have different tools and langs, and different uses for the data itself. He says these are managed usually by a CI/CD process, which don't work well for DataSci. He talks about using containers, and also abstracting the underlying infra. My take is I understand where he's coming from, but honestly not having any understanding of the infra makes for worse understanding of flows and costs, and less ability to tune and take advantage of the latest advances in tech. Interesting perspective though.
BottomLine: Good thinkpiece on approaches to low-level infra on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.techzine.eu/news/security/136197/runtime-behind-docker-and-kubernetes-contains-three-vulnerabilities/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-21
Description: Our article today tackles some issue with runC, the runtime piece that underlies both Docker and Kubernetes containers. We start with background and the various CVE numbers, and pointing out this breaks seperation (or enables a container escape). The weakness is from allowing certain paths to be mounted inside the container with writer perms -- which allows attackers to change or overwrite files. The idea is for an attacker to create a symlink to the file he wants to control, and then use that as a mount which will allow whatever the attacker wants. They do note that this is now fixed, but that exploitable clusters are still out there in the wild.
BottomLine: Short overview of a runC vuln that works agaisnt Kubernetes and Docker
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/red-hat-openshift-4-20-boosts-ai-security-hybrid-cloud/
DateReviewed: 2025-11-22
Description: We're back with another piece from KubeCon NA 2025, and this one talks about the release of a new version of OpenShift, being 4.20. They mention that MCP is now supported by OpenShift, which opens the ability for things like AI to control or inspect bits of it. They talk about multiclusters with Lightspeed and it's AI support, and also about security in Advanced Cluster Security 4.9. Oddly they do a couple paras on the vision for OpenShift 4.20 at the end.
BottomLine: Article on new release of OpenShift 4.20 at KubeCon NA
==
