URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/how-webassembly-plugins-are-simplifying-kubernetes-extensibility/
DateReviewed: 2026-04-01
Description: Our article today is on how WebAssembly helps with Kubernetes extensibility. They focus in here on a new Helm integration, which allows WASI compliant binaries across different envs. Helm helps add security by utilizing Kubernetes-native segmentation. There is also a speed impact, of up to 39% between a Helm 3 and Helm 4 WASM plugin. They talk about whether WASM might replace K8s completely -- but they feel this is something far off. But it does give hope to the promise of "write once, run everywhere" that has been elusive in the modern web app space. Very interesting.
BottomLine: Good article about how Helm 4 is using WASM to allow plugins on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.sysdig.com/blog/leveling-up-kubernetes-posture-from-baselines-to-risk-aware-admission
DateReviewed: 2026-04-02
Description: This article talks about Kubernetes security posture - how you set up your cluster to respond to various threats. We dive right in, talking a bit about some different pieces that are built into K8s by default. They do point out that some of these tools aren't fine grained - they permit or deny, but don't always take context into account - should this pod be able to do this NOW and HERE? They then contrast usual things like admission controllers with Kyverno and OP gatekeeper - stopping something from running at all vs checking at runtime. This is an interesting discussion, and shows the need for understanding on the security front.
BottomLine: Good discussion and thought piece on Kubernetes secuity approaches
==
URL reference: https://www.kanvas.new/
DateReviewed: 2026-04-03
Description: Today's article is just a product pitch - for a Kubernetes IaC tool called Kanvas. Neat name, very slick website, but a little lacking -- I looked all over for pricing, but don't see any. The advocate for moving away from YAML, and towards a "visual infra management" approach. They talk about targets, how they support GitOps pipelines, how it has many integrations and finally how it's open source. It seems like a promising tool and might be worth a look.
BottomLine: Pitch for new IaC tool for Kubernetes called Kanvas
==
URL reference: https://github.com/okwilkins/h8s
DateReviewed: 2026-04-04
Description: Our target today is a repo called Homernetes, a take on Kubernetes using Talos OS and targeted at home labs. For a home lab distro, it's fairly well featured and contains a good amount of automoation and simplification. It's got tools I haven't used, and I think it would be interesting to try out, just to see how the tools work.
BottomLine: Home lab focused Homernetes is an adaption of Kubernetes w Talos OS
==
URL reference: https://michaeldurkan.com/2026/03/05/aks-networking-ingress-and-egress-traffic-flow/
DateReviewed: 2026-04-05
Description: The article we'll tackle today is on AKS networking, looking at Ingress and Egress traffic flows. Part of a series, the previous installment talked about how networking worked in a cluster, where this one looks at the actual traffic. I like that he explains up front what we'll cover. We dive right in - starting with North-south traffic, which is with hosts external to the cluster. Contrast this with East-west traffic, that stays all inside the cluster. They provide examples of each type. They then dive deeper, start with inbound or Ingress traffic. They dig into different ingress approaches, and the pros/cons of each. They then talk about internal ingress, and designing it for resilience, as it becomes a dependency in the data flow. They then pivot to pure east-west, looking at mTLS, policies and traffic observability among other things. They next look at outbound or Egress traffic, with things like NAT, firewall and endpoints. Very interesting.
BottomLine: Kubernetes networking tackled from the Azure perspective
==
URL reference: https://kube.fm/immutable-linux-for-kubernetes-nodes-mauro
DateReviewed: 2026-04-06
Description: So, rather than being an actual article, this is a blurb for a linked video interview; but I'll do a writeup on just the blurb. We start with a question - should K8s clusters run on general purpose Linux distros, before doing a bit of a dive on the person being interviewed. Then they get into the major themes of the vid, including Linux fundamentals like cgroups and namespaces, talk about how Kairos move a distro into an immutable OS, what trusted boot, secure boot and TPM measurements do for edge deployments, and finally look at 3 tools to help make your clusters more secure.
BottomLine: Blurb for an attached interview which seems might be interesting
==
URL reference: https://twitter.com/dvineet9/status/2030897733880692807
DateReviewed: 2026-04-07
Description: While this is just a tweet, it's actually got a lot of into packed into it. If some Kubernetes resources becomes unhealthy, they list commands to help diagnose the issue. They focus on a DaemonSet, first checking the status, looking at scheduling issues; seeing where the pods are. He notes some of the common issues, and then looks at the app logs to go on. Terse but info laden.
BottomLine: Good quick guide to troubleshooting DaemonSets on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.cvefind.com/CVE-2026-3288
DateReviewed: 2026-04-08
Description: This is a vuln disclosure notice, revolving around Kubernetes Ingress. Basically it comes down to an input validation issue, where inputs aren't properly checked, and that allows the possibility of config changes or info disclosure from the visibility of the Ingress resource, which by default is allowed access to all secrets cluster-wide. The impact graphs show that it has a low likelyhood of exploitation or impact, but you should still check on your install.
BottomLine: Simple vulerability in Kubernetes with low impact - good intro to reading these
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@anjidevops1996/what-is-saas-software-as-a-service-81a9da1031a3
DateReviewed: 2026-04-09
Description: Today's article is digging in to what SaaS is. SaaS, or software as a service, is where you use a remote server (over the internet) to accomplish your software task, often using a web browser. Since you don't need to install anything locally, it eliminates costly updates and reduced the security risks end users face. They have a list of pros and cons, along with another list of examples of current SaaS products.
BottomLine: Simple intro to what SaaS (Software as a Service) is
==
URL reference: https://twitter.com/HackingLZ/status/2036430980584559072
DateReviewed: 2026-04-10
Description: This graphic describes what LiteLLM does as a Python pip install. After invoking install, it copies something to site-packages. From there, any invocation of Python spins off a background process, where it collects sensitive info like credentials for all things it can access. It then spins up a service for persistence. It encrypts all of the data, and then exfils it to a website. The service polls every 50 mins and pulls new binaries and executes them as requested.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of the scope of the LiteLLM Python malware
==
URL reference: https://www.nivelepsilon.com/2023/12/17/simplifying-stateful-application-management-with-operators/
DateReviewed: 2026-04-11
Description: Our article today is going to talk about using operators to help with Kubernetes app states. We start with background - in this case comparing a conductor to what Kubernetes does - in paticular, operators. We then dive in with what is an operator - which is an app specific controller to help manage a K8s app. The idea is that an operator knows what it's app needs, storage, runtime, install and update wise. They then talk about the differences between stateless and stateful apps - starting with stateless. This is easy, as we just need to run the image and have the number of copies/replicas as requested -- no special handling needed. For stateful, you need to keep the data safe -- which makes running, stopping and replacing pods more work. For instance, with a DB, you'd need to save the DB on exit, and restore it on pod creation, along with other things. The authors argue this makes life simpler.
BottomLine: Exploration of what a Kubernetes Operator does at a high level
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@alhobabtagiddin/kernel-logs-the-hidden-arts-6d7bb9979e0b
DateReviewed: 2026-04-12
Description: Today's article will dig into where you have to look if you are having problems but nothing obvious is wrong - Kernel logs. They dive in, explaining there are things, like OOM errors, network issues at a low level or filesystem corruption that only show up in kernel logs. He then shows us how to look for issues in the kernel logs. Using a tool like grep you can find events, like net/mem/fs issues. It's a good thing to check.
BottomLine: Quick piece on using kernel logs to find low level issues on Kubernetes clusters
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2026/03/24/tekton-becomes-a-cncf-incubating-project/
DateReviewed: 2026-04-13
Description: This article introduces us to Tekton, a project the CNCF has decided to incubate. It's a CI/CD system, with security and K8s in mind. It's Pipelines component has recently reached stable v1.0 release. It integrates and co-operates with a variety of build tools. After some community comments, they go through Tekton's components, including Pipelines, trigers, CLI, Dashboard and Chains, with definition for each. Interesting project.
BottomLine: Intro to Tekton - a newly incubated CNCF project
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@shaoyunjian/getting-started-with-helm-kubernetes-package-manager-45e4f4545465
DateReviewed: 2026-04-14
Description: Our article today is an intro to Helm, and we start with a diagram, which is my favorite. We start with a short backstory, before getting into what is Helm. They explain it's a package manager, where a chart is an application, and it manages all aspects of the rollout. While you can use YAML directly, Helm helps manage all of the bits in a central place. We then go through how a Helm chart is built, and what files make it up and how they work. They go through some key concepts, like chart, release, reporisitory and values.YAML, with a bit of explaination of what each of these mean. They also contrast what Helm is with what a Helm Chart is. Finally, they walk through some of the Helm actions - like installing, updrading, uninstalling, listing and how a dry-run works. They also touch on versions and how to roll back.
BottomLine: A good intro on what Helm is and how Helm charts work on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.empiricapps.com/zenithal/download
DateReviewed: 2026-04-15
Description: Today we have what appears to be an ad disguised as a new package to manage Kubernetes on MacOS. The package is called Zenithal, and while it has a free version, it also has a "pro" version which does other things, like integrate with Trivy. Now I don't mind apps that charge money to provide value, but Trivy is just being wrapped here -- and there isn't much of a blurb of what it does, except for "container management and Docker compose - 2 projects". If your going to pitch, tell me what I'm getting, at least.
BottomLine: Bad sort of pitch for a MacOS Kubernetes/Container app
==
