
URL reference: https://www.imperva.com/blog/on-premises-api-security-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2026-07-01
Description:  Today's article is about on-prem API security for Kubernetes. We first get into thinking about where your APIs actually run. They talk about how it's not always clear where security bits should run, made more complicated by the way the cloud often works. They also surface the difference between running a pre-prod static scan vs. the actual runtime, where certain things may not be present. Next they talk about the API security "gap", or the fact that teams can miss as many as 50 or more API endpoints when moving off the cloud. What is important is that while we focus on what we're building now, we have to mitigate risks for a project that was attempted but got put on hold, but the API code is still in the wind. They pivot to talking about WAFs, and how the right thing for them is based on proper intelligence of the threat enviro. Very interesting approach.
BottomLine: Good article on risks to cloud/on-prem deploys that aren't immediately obvious
==
URL reference: https://gitrated.com/vchinnipilli/kubestriker
DateReviewed: 2026-07-02
Description: This is a blurb article on a tool called Kubestriker. It's a security auditing tool for cluster and cloud managed misconfigs. They mention it has a CLI, solid docs and a web app option with CI CD integration. This blurb does mention it doesn't have a recent release and that some of the execution choices seem less then ideal. Nice pro/con section, with recommendations to close out.
BottomLine: Solid walkthough on a cluster and cloud native security scanning tool
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@ismailkovvuru/updating-kubernetes-deployments-services-without-recreation-496da6cfe025
DateReviewed: 2026-07-03
Description: Our article today talks about updating Kubernetes deployments without recreation. They explain that there are a lot of moving parts in an update, and to have an interruption free deployment requires lots of little things. Now, this is sort of a tutorial on how to do things - as they walk us through figuring out where the service port is; what the version of the image is, and how many replicas we have running; then show us how to modify/increase all of these items. Pretty compact but good walkthrough.
BottomLine: Solid walkthrough on doing modifications to a Kubernetes deployment
==
URL reference: https://twitter.com/termdotworks/status/2071685291987833000
DateReviewed: 2026-07-04
Description: This article talks about Termworks. So, it seems that this is some kind of shell hook that displays ads? I'm kind of hoping there is some point like it lets you have free access to some AI or other, because why would you want MORE ads (and especially in your shell)? It grabs the command name you run, likely to know what tools you are using (to target the ads better). They do try to be somewhat transparent, explaining how the thing functions and that it is a GO source program.
BottomLine: Blurb about an ad tool called Termworks
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-rightsizing-trust-gap/
DateReviewed: 2026-07-05
Description: Our article today talks about how to fix soaring cloud bills. But it seems that people worry about automating the bits that turn down resources for some reason. So while right-sizing is a priority, a big majority of engs don't allow automation to control things like shutting down or downsizing resources. 
BottomLine: Short discussion about automating cost control measures on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@selvarajmurugesan90/kubeflow-empowering-machine-learning-on-kubernetes-305e8ee46296
DateReviewed: 2026-07-06
Description: Today's article is about how Kubeflow works with Machine Learning. WWe start with a bit of background as is usual, then dive in. Kubeflow is an open source ML platform, and this article talks about what Kubeflow is, how it works, how to use it on K8s, and some use cases. Kubeflow is a middle piece, which enables things like ML frameworks (tensorflow), interactive bits (like Jupyter), let's you automate pipelines and also train, serve and monitor models. It goes through the benefits, before diving into the how to run it on K8s. We start with prereqs, then the install and verify. They go through 3 use cases in detail, and to wrap up end with some best practices for production. 
BottomLine: Solid piece on an ML framework for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/wsl-container-is-now-available-for-public-preview/
DateReviewed: 2026-07-07
Description: This article talks a bit about the announcement at MS build 2026 that container devel for Linux is being supported directly on WSL. After giving a bit of background, this actually does a bit of a walkthrough to show you what the features are and talks a bit about the API. Very interesting.
BottomLine: Announcment of direct Linux container dev on WSL on Windows
==
URL reference: https://www.prplbx.com/blog/kubernetes-security
DateReviewed: 2026-07-08
Description: Today's article is about Kubernetes pentesting. This is more from the perspective of a security person, rather than a K8s person. It's also fairly high level, as well as being quite short and to the point. It give the layout of the typical cluster, before quickly jumping into methodologies. Like typical security, we have info gathering, authentication and authorization teting, pod security, network security, api security and finally config reviews. They then go through some pentest tools, before doing a bit of hands on with a CTF exploration. Quite solid.
BottomLine: Kubernetes pentesting from the perspective of a security person
==
URL reference: https://akuity.io/2026-gitops-best-practices
DateReviewed: 2026-07-09
Description: While today's piece is supposed to be an ebook, I actually got got and it's just a signup LINK to an ebook. While it has a little blurb on what is in the book, including Helm and Kustomize, Git workflow and GitOps repos, CI CD bits and some other stuff, NONE of that is shown here, and we don't review what we can't see without paywall or signups.
BottomLine: Might be interesting topics but an ebook behind signup
==
URL reference: https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-projects/dark-moon-ai-penetration-testing-linux
DateReviewed: 2026-07-10
Description: Our article this week talks about a tool called Dark Moon and how AI pentesting is changing things up. We start with some background, and then pivot to talking a bit about the tool, which works on a variety of endpoints and uses Docker based tools. The idea here is instead of a human tester reading output of one tool to decide what flags to pass to the next tool, it automatically figures out what the output says that is interesting and creates tests based on what might be interesting going forward. They explain that by using Docker containers, it isolates the testing tools from the tested host. It's an interesting approach and a novel use of AI to supercharge pen tests.
BottomLine: Interesting discussion on using AI to enhance traditional pentests
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@c0gnit00/kubernetes-and-k3s-a-practical-deep-dive-27051aaec45e
DateReviewed: 2026-07-11
Description: So today we're going to look at Kubernetes and the K3s distro it seems. This article starts from first principles, explaining what K8s is to start. Then it moves on to how the cluster works from the big picture perspective, talking about the components of the system. They use K3s as an example (showing some typical K3s pods). After they run through the data plane, they pivot to the control plane, which runs it all. So, we get a full walkthrough of K8s, before we get to lightweight K8s - K3s. The idea is to have something small and mostly self contained, which for K3s means a 70MB binary for the cluster components in total. So while it looks like standard K8s, it's slimmer under the hood - sqlite instead of etcd, for instance. They explain some challenges of this approach, and dive into K8s RBAC and how that works, with some CLI bits. It then goes through the "key" ports that K3s supports, and what they do. They talk about ServiceAccount tokens, so you know how they work. Then there is a command ref and some small tutorials on how to do stuff. Very well done.
BottomLine: Good piece on K3s and how things work overall in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://itnext.io/configuration-as-code-is-a-liability-for-security-d0e53727cd17
DateReviewed: 2026-07-12
Description: Today's article is going to talk about configuration as code, and why this might be a vulnerability. They start with example questions, like across all namespaces and clusters, where am I missing a default deny Network Policy. Their claim is when using ConfAsCode, you can't query a single place to answer (as the configs might be in different spots/repos). They point out you can run against your live clusters, but if you find an issue then you still have to track the config repo (or drift and patch live). They pose another option - using ConfigHub, which treats config as data. Now, it might be a great tool, and they do give some detail on deploying and using it, but it seems like a radical departure from current practices, and I'm not sure all use cases are covered. It's an interesting take to read, though.
BottomLine: Alternative system for doing configuration as code on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.fairwinds.com/blog/ai-infrastructure-runs-on-kubernetes-platform-ready
DateReviewed: 2026-07-13
Description: Our article today is going to talk about where AI workloads seem to be ending up, and whether your infra is prepared for those workloads. They give a bit of background - AI teams don't start on K8s; when they start, there are some local experiments. But after, they need compute and production level reliability, along with scaling - something Kubernetes handles well. Next, they talk about why K8s is the preferred choice - with training jobs needing bursty compute, inference needing to scale under load and recover on failures, and finally data and feature pipelines needing scheduling and observablility. The key thing is that AI workloads stress things differently, esp. with it wanting large amounts of GPU time. Getting data placement right is also critical, to avoid the constant need to ship data around. They have a compelling chart, where they list some of the nuanced differences and how a new approach is needed, esp. with GPUs. They talk about companies using a Hybrid approach, using public clouds for training and private clouds for the inference parts. They also mention companies are building on existing infra, extending their existing K8s clusters. They mentioned that with Platform engineering, we are seeing some abstracting away of the infra, to the point some devs don't see themselves as "K8s users" anymore. They say one danger is that the abstraction can mean while you are dependent on K8s, you don't fully understands what it is doing. They point out that bottlenecks can be infra related - like having available GPU capacity, but seems pinned due to poor scheduling. Great thinkpiece.
BottomLine: Very strong piece on how to approach using Kubernetes to run your AI workloads
==
URL reference: https://github.com/cozystack/ccp/pull/17
DateReviewed: 2026-07-14
Description: This article is a PR request in response to CVS 2026-53359 or Januscape, which is a guest to host escape on Linux KVM in x86. The root cause is a use-after-free bug, but it can only be exploited if nested virtualization is turned on, which this PR asks to be turned off. Well explained vuln with known exploit, and this is the initial mitigation for that.
BottomLine: Good high level walkthrough of a serious container escape bug
==
URL reference: https://x.com/sudiprokaya/status/2074158809803874723
DateReviewed: 2026-07-15
Description: Our article today talks about how people are structuring their AI approaches; not using a single model for all work, but rather using one model for decisions, another for volume requests and a third smaller one for the easy ones. Our authors argue that the router layer for AI should also act as an admission layer, with context, data perms, tools allowed, budget and when it needs approval. They argue the "request" has turned into the "delegated job" as a unit of software measurement. They consider the request "research this customer", and what that means practially - it could mean just reading notes, or it could be combining info from 5 disperate systems. And it's hard to manage from a governance perspective thinking about it like that. They point out that while a lot of agent tools are being run in production, it isn't always clear when AI is doing something, as opposed to a human making a request. They point out people have defined permissions, where often agents do not. They argue the true issue is an agent spending $400 on a $4 task. To solve this, our authors propose six gates that can guardrail AI actions. The gates are Identity, Workload class, Context, Tools, Approval, and finally the reciept. They argue this is the key piece, a summary of what the agent did, what it used, what it cost, and what the final result was. 
BottomLine: Very interesting discussion on approaches to AI controls
==
URL reference: https://community.f5.com/kb/TechnicalArticles/use-minio-aistor-in-kubernetes-with-big-ip-container-ingress-services-for-s3-dat/346807
DateReviewed: 2026-07-16
Description: Today's article talks about a massively scalable S3 object storage solution, which can be used in and out of Kubernetest clusters. The software is called AIStor MinIO, which appears to be an adaption of an open source storage provider. They go through a few use cases, before getting into how to use the S3 provider. In this case, they are using a K8s CSI driver that handles storage, and for MinIO it is using one called DirectPV, which allows you to use local volumes directly as K8s storage through CSI. They then even dig into the commands that you'd need to set this up, using Helm and YAML for the provider and K8s consumer bits. They start at adding the repo, installing the software and then finally fidgeting with disks. They do a good job explaining and showing how to do the setup bits.
BottomLine: Good overview of using MinIOs S3 provider for Kubernetes storage duties
==
URL reference: https://www.sysdig.com/blog/how-to-secure-workloads-containers-and-kubernetes-the-right-way
DateReviewed: 2026-07-17
Description: Our article today looks at the challengers that surround Kubernetes from a security perspective. Our authors point out that while speed and dynamics are central to Kubernetes, these make security monitoring super difficult. Traditional tools thrive in stable systems, when they can scan/run at their leisure and often compare against known fingerprints; quite a different environment then a typical cloud native deploy. They explain the right response is three pronged - vuln mgmt that focuses on real risk, detection and response in real time, and compliance built for cloud-native infra. They then dive into to each prong, with a couple paras on each explaining how they work and what they are doing. Overall a very good piece, recommeneded.
BottomLine: Strong piece on shifting to a Cloud Native friendly security stance for Kubernetes
==
