
URL reference: https://dplacencia.com/blog/why-i-run-a-homelab/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-01
Description: For today's article, we're going to look at a homelab with a twist - not just a toy, but a way to experiment with GPUs and AI. We start with background of everything moving to the cloud, and then how GPUs are a bit more pricey in the cloud, and why doing this on-prem may make economic sense. Our author details his setup, which is a Mac Mini M1 alongside a Proxmox host with 2 RTX3060 GPUs. He then goes through the software stack, which is a K3s cluster for CI/CD, Vault for PKI and secrets, a bastion host for SSH and a self hosted GitHub runner for CI pipelines. He mentions how the Mac Mini figures in, before explaining his external networking with Cloudflare tunnels and Wireguard. His reflection is that while this setup isn't prod ready, it's capable of experiments and prototyping in a decent way. I like the approach and the piece is a great read with solid work. Recommended.
BottomLine: Good piece on using a Homelab to do GPU and AI work
==
URL reference: https://rickjacobo.com/virtuoso.html
DateReviewed: 2026-05-02
Description: What I thought was an article is actually an ad for a Kubernetes-like alternative called virtuoso. They have an ISO for doing an on-prem install, and ability to do a cloud deploy in AWS. Their target seems to be homelabs and small envs, and it looks early but pretty solid. It's a VM wrangler, so a bit different then K8s, but might be K8s compatible. The dashboards look very slick. Worth a look I'd say.
BottomLine: Neat app that allows coordination of local and cloud VMs
==
URL reference: https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/running-large-scale-gpu-workloads-on-kubernetes-with-slurm/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-03
Description: Our article today is going to dive into using Slurm to manage GPU workloads. We start with a short background on what Slurm is - an open source cluster mgmt and job scheduler. While used on its own, the challenge they pose is to integrate it with Kubernetes. To accomplish this, they use Slinky, which has two parts - slurm-bridge, allowing Slurm scheduling to work with K8s workloads, and slurm-operator, which leans on K8s infra to do the full Slurm lifecycle. The focus of the rest of this piece is on this second part of Slinky. We get a diagram, and they explain how Slurm is run using K8s native resources in many spots. They then dive into how different types of workloads would work, and mention that running on K8s works very similarly to how it would work without K8s. They talk a bunch more about it, but the interesting thing is that they've used up to 8K GPUs on it - quite impressive.
BottomLine: Decent piece on using Slurm with Kubernetes to manage GPU workloads
==
URL reference: https://www.iqsource.ai/en/blog/kubernetes-playbook-ai-agents-payroll/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-04
Description: Today's article uses a weird title to try and convey something else - I thought it was about using AI on financial data with guards, but it is actually about a guy who built Azure's container service moving to a payroll company. We start with a bit of background on this hire, along with a bit of shade on how AI containers are the next greatest thing. Then we talk a bit about early Kubernetes approach, and how it integrated in things like RBAC and audit logs to add strong security, and how the hire helped with that. We do get in a bit to the weeds on the AI side, looking at AI agent intent, tool use and trust delegation and how they loosly map to what K8s did. They then pivot back to Workday, talking about its stats then how it is using Sana that it acquired and it's AI agents that help clients get the info they need. They talk about the risks and attack surface, and how to dial down both of these while still getting done what you need. Interesting piece.
BottomLine: Interesting piece talking about a person moving along with how to make AI both useful and under control
==
URL reference: https://hackernoon.com/why-your-kubernetes-platform-team-is-still-answering-tickets-in-2026
DateReviewed: 2026-05-05
Description: This article dives into why your Kubernetes platform team is still answering tickets. They start with a scenario - new features needs a namespace - and how that happens or actually falls short. They claim it isn't a staffing or infra issue, but rather an understanding of process one. He's suggests that NaaS - namespaces as a service - will give devs what they want, a way to deploy in a timely manner. They talk a bit about the landscape, and some of the various failures that make up the reason this needs to happen. They note that not even security and policy tools are targets. Their big point is that automation without good policy will just create sprawl and confusion, but faster than you can keep up. They argue that you build the policy first, and then allow names and require labels as needed. The goal here is to have resources created consistently, quickly, and withing your governance guidelines. They dive more deeply and explain a lot - it's a very well written piece.
BottomLine: Solid piece about building good automation on strong policy and governance pieces
==
URL reference: https://alanhc.github.io/til/docs/HERMES_AI_KUBERNETES_SECURITY_ARCHITECTURE_EN
DateReviewed: 2026-05-06
Description: Today we're going to look at using Kubernetes as a defense in depth platfrom for AI agent systems. We're going to look at Hermes, an AI agent chat with tool calling ability, and see how that works security wise using K8s built in security mechanisms. They'll be considering the boundry between the reasoning layer (gateway) and the action layer (tool execution). We now dive in, and they lay out the issues - while LLMs have tool access with API keys and creds, how do we know they aren't being subverted with prompt injection or external input. Next up they get into the threat model, mapping out the attack surface. They point out many input points, like Slack, Discord and webhooks and any can contain malicious instructions. They talk about tool exec, credential leakage, and memory or skill vectors as part of the surface. We now look at Hermes, and the point out /opt/data is quite sensitive. Now we look at the defense - they start with basic things like least priv, moving on to K8s namespace layers which divides and isolates different parts of Hermes. They have a good text diagram, then do a short descrption of how it is set up. They then get into specific containers, noting the main interface is the gateway, and they harden this quite a bit. For /opt/data, they let the GW mount it rw, dashboard ro, and don't let it mount elsewhere. They go on to talk about network, tool-exec, MCP server perms, runtime policies, and how to handle output data. They talk about audits, how to handle skills, and much more. An excellent starting point to think about AI security.
BottomLine: Security boundry walkthrough of Hermes with Kubernetes doing defense in depth
==
URL reference: https://cybersecuritynews.com/hackers-exploit-kubernetes-misconfigurations/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-07
Description: Our article today will talk about attackers exploiting Kubernetes misconfigs. We start with a bit of background - K8s is popular, that draws attention, and the goal is to get access to cloud accounts. We're then given scary stats, and told attacks aren't random. Service tokens are a target, as well as container escapes. In a story old as time, the pattern is familiar - gain foothold (code exec in container), pivot and look for creds, look for exposures (API or other lines), and seek to move up the chain. They then move on to some examples, like a Crypto exchange compromise through a developer who was phished. They used an active session to deploy a container and obtain a token, allowing far-ranging access to the cluster. They parlayed this into cloud access and finally were able to access and steal millions in crypto coins. They also detail a react2shell expoit.
BottomLine: Walkthroughs of two recent exploits to show Kubernetes admins what they are up against
==
URL reference: https://k8sgames.com/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-08
Description: Today's uh .. site? .. is a spot where you can learn Kubernetes by playing. It has a campaign mode, where you build from simple pods all the way to prod, a chaos mode that simulates trouble, a sandbox to try things out and challenges to test your skills. Open source and free, very cool.
BottomLine: Neat tool to learn Kubernetes in various ways hands on
==
URL reference: https://www.wwt.com/wwt-research/ai-at-scale-on-kubernetes-why-platform-discipline-determines-accelerator-efficiency
DateReviewed: 2026-05-09
Description: Our article today focuses on how AI changes the equation on how much scheduling slack you can afford. We start with and Exec summary, and we transition into recommendations on first moves, including seperating training and inference, using admission control and queue based schedules, instrument accelerator, model and pipeline telemetry and standardize cluster and sec policy. They talk a bit more before coming to their point - inefficiency at scale -- where by underutilizing accelerators you are paying for busy wait cycles. The discussion is actually very interesting.
BottomLine: Interesting approach to Kubernetes utilization when using AI
==
URL reference: https://ergaster.org/til/kubernetes-crash-shell/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-10
Description: Today's article is a quick post on how to get insight into a crashing container. Our author explains how to use the K8s debug command to see into a container that might not be behaving; it's a quick into, but something people might not know about.
BottomLine: Quick intro into the Kubernetes debug command for crashing containers
==
URL reference: https://www.nutanix.com/tech-center/blog/the-importance-of-openness-for-kubernetes-at-scale
DateReviewed: 2026-05-11
Description: Our article today dives into the importance of Openness for Kubernetes at scale. We start with a bit of background, touching on the popularity of K8s as a platform, before doing an intro the includes going through all the features that are included out of the box. Now we pivot to "differentiation", which is where vendors use K8s as a building block and then add proprietary extensions and APIs, and talk a bit about why that is bad. The arguement here is if you use an open-source adhering provider, you get more flexibility and the ability to run anywhere (including on-prem). It's an interesting perspecitve.
BottomLine: Good piece on wanting to keep your whole Kubernetes cluster on open source software
==
URL reference: https://www.fairwinds.com/blog/make-kubernetes-self-service-without-losing-control
DateReviewed: 2026-05-12
Description: Today's article is going to talk about self-serve Kubernetes. We dive right in, with a discussion of what it means - in this case, allowing devs to deploy an app somewhere without needing someone else to do something; generally, with guardrails and the small stuff done for them. This includes spinning up a new service or namespace, adding secrets, deploying to dev or staging, and finally looking at logs, metrics and traces. We transition from this to talking about what should or shouldn't be in self serve - so low risk things are okay, but higher risk things should be restricted, like cluster level changes, network topology changes, shared infra or org-wide security changes. They introduce "golden path", a way that gives devs all the things that they need, in an easy way. Next up, they talk about what the interface for Devs should look like - maybe a portal, or a simple CLI, or maybe even a GitOp flow. They talk a bunch about policy, but then even have a discussion on if your self serve is working -- which should mean declining tickets and comm points.
BottomLine: Good discussion of what Kubernetes self serve should look like
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@pawaniitbhu/kubernetes-demystified-from-containers-to-clusters-part-20-health-check-probes-in-kubernetes-e485071d89fa
DateReviewed: 2026-05-13
Description: This article is about Kubernetes health checks, and is part of a series about Kubernetes. We start with numbered lists, and go through what they do and the conditions they have to meet to be considered successful. We go through Health, Liveness, and Readiness, and we even mix a bit of YAML in. Last but not least they do mix in a Startup probe. A bit terse, but worth a look.
BottomLine: Very short intro to Health probes on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://twitter.com/Yash_s33244/status/2048758694851354842/photo/1
DateReviewed: 2026-05-14
Description: Our focus today is an infographic on new Kubernetes v1.30 security features. Most prominent is simplified security policies, which is always helping admins and operators. They also talk about enhanced autoscaling and better stability and performance.
BottomLine: Short infographic on new Kubernetes enhancements for Kubernetes v1.30
==
URL reference: https://hashicorpengineering.substack.com/p/nomad-on-openshift-the-control-plane
DateReviewed: 2026-05-15
Description: Today's article talks about using OpenShift with Nomad as your control plane, and more importantly why you should trust it. We start with a bit of background - trying to run containers and orchestrate them at the edge, on devices that are usually lighter weight with less memory and CPU capability. Enter Red Hat with a compromise - leverage RH instances for compute while using a control backplane that is more beefy, on OpenShift. We get an arch diagram, then an intensive discussion of the benefits of Nomad and how it works well in constrained envs. It's a great discussion and something to consider.
BottomLine: Zones in on using Nomad with Kubernetes to run at the edge
==
URL reference: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/04/23/kubernetes-v1-36-userns-ga/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-16
Description: Our article today dives into user namespaces finally going GA in Kubernetes v1.36. We start with background - this has been in the pipe for a long time, and it's foundational to getting to true rootless security. The basic idea is inside the container the process looks like root; but in the host process system, it's an unprivledged user. It allows access to privledged system calls, but only in the context of the container. Previously, if you needed to make a priv. system call, you had to be root on the host or it would fail; no uid 0, no success. Not anymore. This also extends to volumes - at first, kubelet would chown all the files, but now, the kernel remaps them at mount time. They even have a short example with YAML.
BottomLine: Good piece on User Namespaces and how they help in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://copy.fail/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-16
Description: This article talks about a simple proof of concept that exploits an issue in a privledged system call to get a root shell. The program is a small Python script, and the vulnerability stretches back to 2017, making every Linux distro vulnerable. They have a video walkthrough on 4 different distros to show the simplicity of it. They go through a laundry list of what you should patch and in what order, which makes a lot of sense. K8s clusters and multi-tenant hosts are first, then SaaS, CI runners and so on until we get to single-user workstations. They have a detailed discussion, including a quick workaround and patch suggestions, and what isn't affected at all and what might be affected. They then have a FAQ section and a timeline. Recommended reading.
BottomLine: Great coverage of a timely vulnerability affecting lots of cloud systems
==
URL reference: https://www.interconnectedsystems.net/#tools
DateReviewed: 2026-05-17
Description: Our resource today is a listing and web interface of a number of AI infrastrucure, cloud infra and network diagnostic tools that devs and operators can use. Lots of interesting tools, organized into tabs with small UIs or links. 
BottomLine: Collection of Cloud and AI infra testing tools and resources
==
URL reference: https://nivelepsilon.com/2025/09/11/your-kubernetes-rollback-is-lying/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-18
Description: Today we'll be looking at rollbacks and their apparent flaws. We start with a story - a wayward deployment causing production to start failing, so we do our trusty thing and rollback; except that doesn't solve the issue; our monitors say okay, but things aren't working -- why? They explain that if your code made a DB change, then that change doesn't magically go away when you revert. They frame this as "time travel", and if your new rollout included changes outside of code, then those may reflect things your older code might choke on. They also explain that while your app may respond to a simple /health check, it may not be ready to serve actual requests in a broad way. Caches are cold, JITs are still jit-ting, and your customers are seeing slowness or timeouts. Their suggestion is using a startupProbe, to tell if your app is really ready. They also touch on traffic routing, and specifically how your mesh will route a lot of your traffic to the now warming pods, which may not be able to cope with it yet. They have good advice - with steps to follow - on how to recover, which may NOT involve a rollback. Figure out what is wrong, triage and evaluate the best way forward -- is it a hotfix, or jumping back to the last version? Very solid approach with good advice.
BottomLine: Very good piece on how to approach a failed deployment on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@muppedaanvesh/setting-a-default-container-in-kubernetes-%EF%B8%8F-d9dfbf39ac95
DateReviewed: 2026-05-19
Description: With this article, we're going to look at using a default container on Kubernetes. We start with a bit of background talking about a pod that runs multiple containers. We do this for sidecars to handle logging, monitoring or service mesh tasks; but then using kubectl we have to specify the target contaainer; if we don't, then we get the first one in the manifest, which may not be the right one. The fix is using an annotation, default-container, to mark the one we usually want to deal with. They note it can be done at create time or applied to an existing pod. They then go through an example, showing us snagging the wrong container, and then the YAML for startup that solves this. 
BottomLine: Simple way to specify which container in a pod you want to interact with on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://sinapti.ca/post/en/on-premise-kubernetes-in-production-step-by-step-ha-cluster--flrompua
DateReviewed: 2026-05-20
Description: This article is a tutorial on using kubeadm for high availability, primarily on-prem. We do a bit of background and even compare on-prem HA options. Next up we have prereqs, and dive into OS prep for our nodes. They then set up the cgroup driver that containerd uses, under systemd. Then we finally set up kubeadm, kubelet and kubectl for the K8s side. We then set up the first control plane node, and then the CNI. We join the rest of the nodes and spin up the local LB service. Finally we set up the storage manager. Good walkthrough.
BottomLine: Solid walkthrough to set up Kubernetes on prem with High Availability
==
URL reference: https://www.virtualgraffiti.com.au/partner/?name=Tigera
DateReviewed: 2026-05-21
Description: So, this is more of a product pitch then an article, but let's review. It dives into "unified" net security and observability for Kubernetes, has a couple diagrams and a pretty layout. The copy is a bunch of buzzword laden quips, before getting into the "product" .. which are all variations of Calico. I'm not really sure what I'm buying here, esp. in the open source and free tier levels, but they have cloud and enterprise, so maybe it's setup and operational stuff? It's not clear, in any case. Neat idea, not well conveyed.
BottomLine: Avoidable pitch piece without much real info on Calico for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://2i2c.org/blog/copyfail-mitigation/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-22
Description: This is a good summary and public discussion of a provider trying to explain if they are vulnerable to an exploit and giving the evidence that they used to make that conclusion. In this case, they used proof of concepts (PoC) that should demonstrate the issue and found they don't work. Good blueprint of how to handle such an incident.
BottomLine: Disclosure of possible vuln and discussion of why they feel they are not vuln
==
URL reference: https://dzone.com/articles/kubernetes-survival-kit
DateReviewed: 2026-05-23
Description: Apparently this guide will help us master Kubernetes by getting good with observability, security and automation. The only issue is the packages they use for the most part are a bit obscure, but let's dive in. We start with background on how K8s is the standard, they then talk about some of the big supporting pieces in various fields, like observability, security, monitoring, service mesh, etc - so far, so good. They even have a pretty diagram for the tools. They then explain what each tool does, and how it relates to improving K8s. Then we come to a key tool comparison chart, and ... while it's a bit limited (with only 2 looks per category), it's not terrible. They position the packages they are looking at in the mix, but they seem honest with their comparesl. Oddly, while they mention one observability tool, they do their walkthrough with another (while including a reference back to it?). The approach on the tool front is to break it down into a "what is tool", "why use tool in K8s", "tool in multi-cloud envs". It's a longer piece, and honestly might have been better as a series; they try to cover too much and you lose people that way.
BottomLine: Decent idea on wide swath of Kubernetes tools but done too long
==
URL reference: https://info.aquasec.com/gartner-cnapp
DateReviewed: 2026-05-24
Description: Today we have not an article but a promo piece, which actually has a little bit of worth in it. While it's a cover for a report they want your info to download, they have to include a little bit of info to get you interested, and that info isn't too bad. They talk about the solid shift to Kubernetes, how almost everyone will be there in about 3 years, and how the workloads are changing. A lot of the newer workloads are AI focused, and they also note that VMs and containers are increasingly coming together, with the common manager being Kubernetes. Short but good info.
BottomLine: A blurb for a report but actually has some solid info
==
URL reference: https://www.cloudoptimo.com/blog/kubernetes-security-principles-risks-and-solutions/#cloudoptimo
DateReviewed: 2026-05-25
Description: Another day, another security focused Kubernetes piece; a familiar early background theme - K8s is powerful, but set up to run and not to be super secure. We dive right in and start talking about the API server, which they offer is the most exposed surface. They point out that out of the box, there are some anonymous access enabled to ease developers into getting a cluster running, but bad for a prod situation. They say that only health paths like /readyz should be anon; all else should require a valid identity. They then talk a bit about etcd and how sensitive material is kept secure; arguing that you might want a 3rd party solution here. Next is RBAC, where they argue that there are too many knobs which you can make a mistake on, but done right it can be very secure. Among other things they explain that a GET perm which you might use to allow read only telemetry actually allows code to run if you aren't aware. They then move on to migrating from static to zero trust and dynamic approaches. Next up is security posture if your perimeter fails - what does that look like. There is a lot of good but quite high level discussion on various security bits.
BottomLine: Good article on an overall approach to Kubernetes security
==
URL reference: https://www.hendryadrian.com/kubernetes-security-fundamentals-secrets/
DateReviewed: 2026-05-26
Description: Today's piece isn't an article, but a high level summary of another article. We start with a para that talks about secrets, and what the different soft spots are - like API abuse or local access. They then go through a point-form list of the various points that the article brings out, and then they touch on another list of the MITRE techniques that are used to get or expand access. Finally, they wrap up with indicators of compromise and a link to the original article. While I'm not a big fan of this format, it isn't done badly here.
BottomLine: Solid summary of security of Kubernetes secrets article
==
