
URL reference: https://www.devopschat.co/articles/kubernetes-auditing-and-events-monitoring-cluster-activity
DateReviewed: 2026-01-01
Description: While this is a very interesting title, it turns out the article is not much of one. This article is three paragraphs, and it doesn't say anything deep or meaningful, just that auditing is important and handwaving at some tools, as one would expect from a short summary.
BottomLine: Best to skip this cut down summary on monitoring Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.hashicorp.com/en/blog/deliver-secrets-to-kubernetes-pods-without-storing-in-etcd-using-vso
DateReviewed: 2026-01-02
Description: Our article today talks about a take on secrets - namely one called the Vault Secrets Operator, or VSO. The upside is that it doesn't store anything in etcd, like ordinary K8s secrets would be. We start by noting you can actually use etcd as the backend if you wish - but they recommend something more secure. They explain how you can add RBAC and access them instead through a resource, where they are more secure. They even include diagrams! They have a comparison of the pros and cons of both.
BottomLine: Good short piece on a new tech for managing Kubernetes secrets
==
URL reference: https://coralogix.com/blog/building-visibility-and-resilience-across-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-03
Description: Today's article is about visibility and resilience with Kubernetes through monitoring and logging. We start with background on why security and monitoring matter in Kubernetes, and explains how it makes things quicker but that means a bit more complexity on the security side. As we dive deeper, we first look at shared responsibility, which means if you use a cloud provider or a managed service, some of the security is provided by the supplier and some is done by you, and it's important to know which is what. They then pivot to self-managed K8s - the most control, but the most responsibility. They have six strong best practices, and they are all good. They also advise centralizing and aggregating logs, which is also good. Next they look at managed K8s, and they explain who is responsible for what. There are still lots of things on the customer side, but less items means more time for focus. They talk a bit more about what telemetry you want, and how to monitor this. They go through some example threat scenarios along with some real-world use cases, and pitch centralizing observability. I'll tip my cap as they have exactly ONE para for a product pitch.
BottomLine: Good article on Monitoring strategies for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-auditing-and-events-monitoring-cluster-activity/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-04
Description: In an interesting twist of fate, a few days back I saw an article with a similar title, which was just a summary, where NOW we have the actual article for discussion. Interestingly this is an excerpt from a longer book, so it's really turtles all the way down. We start with what is meant by logs in Kubernetes -- there are tracking what containers do, what the K8s cluster does, and what the app does in that cluster -- and we call these "events". K8s lets containers manage apps logs, and they usually coral standard out and error somewhere to local storage at least. There is often a logging driver, which is a way to do something else with the logs, typically ship them off the container somewhere. For container related logs, the suggestion is to use a sidecar on each node to collect such info. They point out that klog exists, and along with logr is more of a whole logging solution. logr acts as a decoupler, and can create klog and other outputs. We now pivot to auditing, which is the process of reviewing and analyzing the logs for information. They pose a question - why did a container get evicted by K8s? Auditing is the answer. To get api activities, there is an API plugin called kubernetes_events which we can set up to grab and produce logs. They talk a bit about Fluent Bit, without explaining what it is; I'm guessing a logging aggretator of some sort. They go through some config file bits and tactical considerations. There is one caution - which is that events are informative, best effort supplmental data - so there are no guarantees in the system. They end with a FAQ and some references; actually a good overall piece.
BottomLine: Article that dives into various Kubernetes log areas
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2025/12/15/kubernetes-security-2025-stable-features-and-2026-preview/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-05
Description: Our article looks at various Kubernetes security developments, highlighting features from 2025 and a sneak peak at what might come in 2026. We start with a chart (love it) of the stable grads of 25, where they list the version it appeared, the name, what it does, and a link for more info. I'll mention a few - sidecar containers, recursive read-only mounts, fine grained auth via selectors and ordered namespace deletion. After that, we have a chart of another 8 features that are likely in 26, with the name, stage in current release, KEP, description and more info link included. I think they could have talked about a couple of the features in each set, but this is a good baseline.
BottomLine: Interesting highlight of new 2025 and coming 2026 security features for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://hackernoon.com/strengthen-kubernetes-security-with-vault-agent-injector
DateReviewed: 2026-01-06
Description: Today's article will deal with Vault agent injector for Kubernetes, a way to deliver secrets to pods. We start with why we might want to use this (no hardcoded creds), and talk a bit about advantages, like that it is auditable and supports dynamic secrets that expire and rotate. It has a few moving parts - an init container to do initial auth and fetch the secrets; a sidecar to refresh secrets as needed; and a shared mem volume to store the secrets. We then do a multi-step walk through, setting up the vault for use with a K8s cluster. It's a 7 step process, with lots of configs and screenshots to help you follow the explaination.
BottomLine: Good walk through and background on Vault, a Kubernetes secret solution
==
URL reference: https://hwchiu.medium.com/why-and-why-not-of-enabling-swap-in-kubernetes-08c094a8d427
DateReviewed: 2026-01-07
Description: Interesting topic of swap, and how Kubernetes up until now has mostly avoided using it. We start with a quick primer on swap, which is just using disk space to free up RAM for something else temporarily. They then explain why K8s avoids swap - mostly for performance and quality of service reasons, because swap brings in an unknown variable when allocating or using memory. The issue is that without swap, you are limited to physical memory, and subject to dreaded OOM (out of memory) errors. With better management and newer practices, there is a revisit going on to thing about enabling swap in K8s in certain cases. So, something to consider - it's a good topic and article.
BottomLine: Why to use or not use swap on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.ajeetraina.com/top-5-trends-shaping-kubernetes-in-2026/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-08
Description: Our article today focuses on top 5 trends which will shape Kubernetes in 2026, at least according to the author. We start with a bit of author background, where he mentions he's been part of the Collabnix community for a while, before diving into predictions. First up is that AI workloads will become first class citizens - basically that AI are going to be given a prominent position in what can be run on a cluster. They point out announcements including the CNCF backing an AI measure as examples of this. Second up is WebAssembly emerging for Edge and Serverless workloads. WASM is lighter and more secure, so it's easy to see why it gets the nod. Next up is Platform engineering and GitOps becoming standard practice - this puts more automation and relaxes what Devs have to manage or know. Next up is Security first emphasis with hardened containers, using eBPF and zero trust -- all of which promote a more secure stance. Finally, they pose that multi-cluster mgmt and Edge computing will converge. The idea is to have one governance approach to multiple execution envs. An overall interesting take.
BottomLine: Explores 5 possible trends that Kubernetes might take in 2026
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/why-open-platforms-are-the-future-of-kubernetes-deployments/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-09
Description: Today's article are going to talk about open platforms and how they are going to boost the adoption of Kubernetes. We start with the usual background, and then hop into things. They talk about typical ways to use K8s - DIY, proprietary and the public cloud. While they have pros and cons the authors here advocate for a more open platform. We talk about each in turn - first, proprietary, where the starting barrier is low but often that comes at the expense of compatibility and customizations. What you value for innovation your vendor might not, and that can be a drag on your flexibility. We then look at DIY, where you have lots of control but also lots of responsibilities. There is also an infered technical ability for such a team. Finally, they looked at public cloud -- which is good, but can be costly. They contrast this with the open platform approach, which has the upsides of DIY but with the ease of use a cloud or proprietary system might have. They use Nutanix as an example of this - which does use some proprietary pieces out of the box, but can swap those with just open source ones.
BottomLine: Interesting approach to Kubernetes as a full platform to manage
==
URL reference: https://garnaudov.com/writings/how-i-think-about-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-10
Description: This article/blog is a refreshing change of pace on the Kubernetes scene. It's a bit of the author describing things, but it's also a backwards way to do an intro to Kubernetes from an overall perspective. He is looking to actually explain K8s from a different perspective, but he ends up covering a lot of what goes in to K8s in doing so. There is a bit of assumption here, but also it's a good way to draw comparisons with other fields. He also does a good job of explaining how K8s works -- not by doing things, but by asking for a desired outcome and letting K8s make that happen. It's a great walk through how you should use K8s as an orchestrator, and a short into to GitOps. Very well written.
BottomLine: Good blog on a different way to think about Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.youtube.com/shorts/ztVU5B8hDAs
DateReviewed: 2026-01-11
Description: This short vid talks about the difference between ephemeral data and persistent storage inside of Kubernetes. In two minutes, it explains how by default pods are given storage that disappears once the pod goes away, while persistent volumes allow you to store things beyond the life of a single pod.
BottomLine: Good short video on persistent vs ephemeral storage on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/how-to-get-dns-right-a-guide-to-common-failure-modes/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-12
Description: Today's article dives into the mystical world of DNS, and tries to make it a bit more understandable. Kubernetes uses DNS in a lot of places, so having DNS that works properly is important. We start with a short background, and then they dive into why DNS can give us problems. They talk about micro-outages, which are short (minutes to an hour) but hard to diagnose issues. They stem from underlying routing issues, where DNS points to an IP that may not be working. Next up are misconfigs, and these happen all over. Common but tricky issues include CNAME at the apex, missing glue records, bad TTL and lame delegation; they go through each type and how to prevent. They also cover DNS poisoning and Denial of Service (DoS) attacks, which direct users to the wrong server, or just deny the ability to talk to a server at all. Good primer on DNS.
BottomLine: Covers issues with DNS which is important to Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@toonvandeuren/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist-cks-part-3-cilium-network-policies-6625e90bba22
DateReviewed: 2026-01-13
Description: This article talks about Cilium, but does so in the context of the CKS exam. We start with a walkthrough of what Cilium is - basically an eBPF module that does networking at the kernel level. It does this as a CNI or network plugin. While this allows it to do networking, it also enables things like observability and service mesh by these same mechanisms. We then step back and look at default Kubernetes networking, which allows any pod to talk to any other pod in the same cluster - a bigger surface then we'd like. So by using Network policies, we can restrict which pods can talk and how. They then use a YAML snip to show what a "deny all inbound" looks like. Then then show what mods are needed to create a broad accept policy. We go through a few more such examples. They then contrast these with using Cilium, which has more selection and more ways to specify the target of an action. They also point out Cilium has a default deny policy. They go through a number of examples here as well. They also show how to enable mutual auth between pods. 
BottomLine: Good discussion of using Cilium over Network policies on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/12/22/kubernetes-v1-35-kubelet-config-drop-in-directory-ga/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-14
Description: Our article today is an announcement - Kubelet config drop-in graduates to GA in v1.35. This is a milestone, when a feature is considered mature enough to be "General Availability", and solid enough for everyone to use it. For this paticular feature, it allows a number of files in a directory to make up your Kubernete config, which lets different functions be in different files and being able to seperate out a "base" config for all cluster members from custom configs for specific nodes. The idea here is to increase flexibility and allow better management of configs. They give some example use cases to further demonstrate the features.
BottomLine: Announcement of new config related Kubernetes feature going GA in v1.35
==
URL reference: https://www.withproductreviews.com/best-cloud-certifications-2026-get-you-hired/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-15
Description: Today's article is about Cloud certs that can get you hired in 2026. So let's dive in. We start with a bit of fluff, then they explain a bit why Cloud certs are important - that they "validate" practical skills. Then we finally get to the certs. First up, is certified solutions architect - associate, from AWS. It's in many job postings, and AWS dominates the cloud market. Next is MS Azure admin assoc., and it has demand in Gov't and enterprise sectors. Third is Google professional cloud architect, and it is desirable for recognition, and it pairs well with AI, data and general cloud native projects. Next is the CKA, or certified Kubernetes admin, and it helps with SaaS, containers and orchestration, and K8s is a core DevOps/cloud native skill. Finally, we have AWS security specialist, which is attractive as cloud security is such a high priority. They end up with a bit of discussion on which the best cert is for you, and what kind of pay you could expect with it.
BottomLine: Good overview of a handful of Cloud Native and Kubernetes adjacent certs
==
URL reference: https://x.com/techyoutbe/status/2005014003953926378/photo/1
DateReviewed: 2026-01-16
Description: For this installment we have a packed infographic to look at, overall titled as Kubernete Deployment workflow. It's really 4 smaller diagrams, covering security, networking, observability and what I'll call computer aspects. They are well illustrated, cover all the basics and actually convey a good bit of info.
BottomLine: Infographics that cover various aspects of Kubernetes clusters
==
URL reference: https://sonu-tyagi.medium.com/kubernetes-made-simple-a-restaurant-analogy-for-understanding-containers-pods-and-clusters-df87ab870f78
DateReviewed: 2026-01-17
Description: This article is about a way to explain what Kubernetes is from a very simple perspective. We dive right in, starting with a diagram and a Docker image as a "recipe". Carrying this analogy forward, a Docker container is the "prepared dish", or what you run on a pod. Going on, the Docker registry is a Recipe book or storage, to formulate new prepared dishes. The push action is adding a single recipe to the book. A pull reverses this process, fetching the recipe from the book. The pod, which I mentioned earlier, is a table that can hold one or more dishes. Now the node is a kitchen worker, which actually makes the prepared dish. It works because multiple nodes map to multiple cooks. A cluster is the full kitchen staff, all working together. A namespace is a section of the kitchen, which is responsible for a subset (think desert or starters). Finally Kubernetes is the head chef or kitchen manager, overseeing and making sure everything is running right. Very well done.
BottomLine: Kubernetes described with simple kitchen analogies
==
URL reference: https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/dev/c/5XH9BGiefH0/m/bGd9hkofCgAJ
DateReviewed: 2026-01-18
Description: Todays article is actually a list posting about a security issue. The issue is interesting but fairly tame - if you use Headlamp and Helm and have them enabled in the K8s UI, cached credentials can cause an exposure. What seems to happen is a user with Helm access logs in to the UI, and gains Helm access. Then, subsequent users can re-use this Helm access without any authentication, so the auth isn't tied to the original session. The fix is just to upgrade -- it's unclear from the posting if they disable cache or actually track the auths right going forward.
BottomLine: Interesting vuln with Headlamp and Helm in the Kubernetes UI
==
URL reference: https://kubezilla.io/what-is-kubeflow-and-how-can-it-be-used/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-19
Description: Our article today is on Kubeflow, an open source ML platform built on Kubernetes. We start with a short background and then launch into what problem is solved - management of ML workflows, with 6 different pain points mentioned. We then get into a definition of Kubeflow, which is cloud native and K8s based, supports ML from end to end, is framework agnostic and open source. They then dive into the components, with Pipelines, Notebooks, Katib (parameter tuning), KServe (model serving), training operators, and Kubeflow dashboard all covered. They give examples of use, including computer vision, NLP, recommend systems, time series forecasting, and fraud detection. While there is a lot covered here, it's all very surface; the one upside is they do have a quick getting started section.
BottomLine: An intro to the Kubeflow ML tool for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@kethajayasandeep1254/kubernetes-series-1-4789538da400
DateReviewed: 2026-01-20
Description: This article will be a beginner's intro to Kubernetes. I like this author, they have a no-nonsense approach to their topic. They assume you've done a Docker container or maybe two, and have heard the container hype, but don't know what it's about. Well, what if after deploying your container, you need another 10 or 20 spun up? How do you manage that, across servers and geo areas while managing security and logs? We now pivot to why Docker is a problem -- it being that it's a dev area, not a production one mostly. So K8s runs containers, but it does so in a way that is better managed; our author uses a kitchen analogy to explain the how. He then explains different issues and how K8s handles them. He even explains how you interact with K8s by desired state and K8s makes it happen. Part of a series, this is a good start.
BottomLine: Quick intro for beginners to Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.thefastmode.com/technology-solutions/46436-cloudbolt-aws-partner-to-optimize-cloud-and-kubernetes-workload
DateReviewed: 2026-01-21
Description: So today's piece is a PR release about CloudBolt software signing a collab agreement with AWS. While the piece waxes on about things getting better with the partnership, they don't mention what the software does or why this might make people who aren't using their software jump on board. Don't get me wrong, teams should push out bits when they release, but it would be nice if they used one para to explain what their product does in the first place.
BottomLine: Skippable PR blurb about a company colab with AWS
==
URL reference: https://kubezilla.io/cilium-tetragon-ebpf-powered-runtime-security-for-kubernetes-and-docker/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-22
Description: Our article today focuses on Cilium Tetragon - runtime security for Kubernetes and Docker. At first, I thought this would be lightweight, as they use what feels like an AI illustration in their opening bit. They start with a bit of background and an intro on runtime security, before diving in and explaining the vulns and enumerating some threats. We move from that into eBPF, the backbone of Cilium, and then what Tetragon adds on top - Hook points, Selectors and Actions. After this brief intro, they drop into a hands-on getting started, going through some CLI bits and YAML files. It's hefty, my main complaint being the text areas are a bunch of point-form lists, rather than flowing prose, but that is my angle. Decent and long, looks pretty good.
BottomLine: Intro and walk through of Tetragon Cilium - a runtime security tool for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@ghantajyothi99/kubernetes-troubleshooting-in-production-lessons-from-the-real-world-part-1-ba3e6b1b10c1
DateReviewed: 2026-01-23
Description: Today's article is going to go through a few issues you can run into in production, as well as trying to give some direction to more general troubleshooting. We start with a bit of background, and then onto Pods stuck in ContainerCreating. It's due to an EBS vol that hasn't been freed. Next up in inter-pod comms broken; issue is not enough IPs in the VPC subnet. Number 3 is pods restarting frequently, which is due to liveness probe failures. In each of these cases, the author gives immediate fixes as well as ways to prevent in the future. He explains that issues aren't random, but symptoms of something running out or somehow broken.
BottomLine: Good short intro to specific Kubernetes troubleshooting
==
URL reference: https://kubezilla.io/kubernetes-security-the-most-critical-challenge-facing-devops-teams-in-2025/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-24
Description: Our article today looks at Kubernetes security in 2025. We start with stats, including that K8s security has become the most searched topic. This is supposed to surprise or shock us, then they reveal - K8s is not secure by default. Which is true to a degree, but you have to know what you are working with. We dive in with the top five security challenges - Vuln container images, RBAC misconfig, Network policy gaps, Secrets management, and finally supply chain security. For each of these it lays out the where the threat is from, and how it manifests. We now pivot to security solutions, including - image scanning early, enforce pod security standards, implement network policies, external secrets management, enable audit logging, and implement runtime security. All solid suggestions, backed with a para or two explaining what they do and howo it helps. They also touch on Docker security recently and a best practice checklist, finishing up with a biz case for security. Very solid.
BottomLine: A good overall look at security from a Kubernetes perspective
==
URL reference: https://dev.to/esreekarreddy/kubernetes-explained-like-youre-5-1e7d
DateReviewed: 2026-01-25
Description: Today's piece is aimed at simplifying Kubernetes down to the basics, tackling explaining Kubernetes like I am five. We use a shipping anaology, and need to put our containers spots; we need someone to help organize. We don't dive into too much detail, but they cover the basics from a business side while explaining well what Kubernetes does, while going light on the how it does it. They touch on too much traffic, very light traffic, a container issue and a few more. A gret light intro.
BottomLine: Pretty decent lightweight biz focused intro to Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.suse.com/c/kubecon-na-2025-suse-application-collection/
DateReviewed: 2026-01-26
Description: Our piece today is actually a marketing blurb for a new SUSE product for a FIPS validated app collection. I don't mind promos, but this one starts with the phrase *subscription free* which scares me. Aimed at devs, it allows access to some curated images and integrates access to Rancher, a popular K8s altenative. The focus is on strong security and strong compliance, but not much is nitty gritty in this piece.
BottomLine: Blurb about SUSE app offerings that are secure and offer FIPS
==
