URL reference: https://medium.com/@Ibraheemcisse/how-i-set-up-a-kubernetes-home-lab-on-ubuntu-wsl-53b8866121e9
DateReviewed: 2026-03-01
Description: On tap for today is a walkthrough of setting up a Kubernetes cluster on Windows through WSL. We start with a bit of background on the author and how he kicked this project off. We start by installing Docker on WSL, and then verify by running the hello world image. Next up is intalling k3d, a slimmed down version of Kubernetes for Docker, along with kubectl. Next is spinning up the cluster, which consists of running a single CLI command, and finally verifying things work. Well done!
BottomLine: Walkthrough of installing Kubernetes on Windows with WSL
==
URL reference: https://theoneamin.medium.com/i-built-kubernetes-event-watcher-b677e926a10d
DateReviewed: 2026-03-02
Description: Kubernetes is an event driven manager, and today our author explains a bit about events while he shows us something he built - a watcher. We start with background - K8s by default keeps events for an hour, but they can sometimes help in debugging so this is adjustable. However, the author notes, some cloud providers might not let you do this. So the author built the event watcher, which is fully customizable even in the cloud. He shows us the config, which is a filter on which events you are capturing. Now the author uses the captured events as a basis to provide notifications through Slack and e-mail, for instance. He then shows us the architecture (with diagram!). We need a service account to enable this, and so he shows us the RBAC that allows what we need. The way it's used is to deploy it as a pod - that's it. It has a test system, which allows simulation of K8s events, allows notification verification and validation of config changes.
BottomLine: Short walkthrough of an event monitor and notification system for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/the-risc-architecture-frontier-is-ebpf-ready-for-arm64-and-risc-v/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-03
Description: Today we're going to dive in and see if eBPF is ready for prime time on Arm and RISC machines. We start with a bit of background and orientation on eBPF, and how it's been super helpful in x86 configs. Recently, devs announced they'd be including Windows, Arm and RISC in their coverage. The touch on talks that explain that it's working, but things are not all perfect, as in different archs the edges is where you feel pain. They say that Arm is pretty good, but where there is work to do is in the RISC-V area. Paticularly of concern are thing like JIT compilers and verifiers. They mention that a sandbox using RISC-V should be approached as a learning expriment and not a prod env quite yet. The dig into the gaps, but the gist is that eBPF devs are working hard to bring things into parity, but it's right now still a work in progress.
BottomLine: Interesting piece on using eBPF for Arm and RISC-V architectures
==
URL reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UxZlCho7-KI
DateReviewed: 2026-03-04
Description: The videos we're looking at today is about Kubernetes persistent storage. We start by looking at a pod, then deleting it - but then we try to access it and get a 404, because all of the added stuff is gone. To fix this, the creator will go through and show us how to set up K8s with persistent storage. He goes through creating the storage, and showing how the storage is claimed to a specific pod. Then he creates some local files, deletes and creates a new pod, and the files are still there. Decent walkthrough.
BottomLine: Video piece showing how Kubernetes persistent storage works
==
URL reference: https://grahamhelton.com/blog/nodes-proxy-rce
DateReviewed: 2026-03-05
Description: Our article today will walk through being able to execute code on every pod with certain permissions. The author explains that with nodes/proxy GET permission, this allows what he feels is an RCE. He states that admins may be granting this perm to monitoring tools, not intending to allow arbitrary code to be allowed. They explain that the lack of "exec" perms which is on a different endpoint don't matter in this case. The author does enumerate which tools request this perm, and goes through a proof of concept. My take is that this is a specific issue which is a weakness, but may not be as severe as it sounds.
BottomLine: Interesting RBAC issue where allowing read enables exec in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://visualpathblogs.com/openshift/openshift-in-devops/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-06
Description: Today we're going to explore OpenShift, with an eye on how it is used in DevOps. We start with an intro, where they talk briefly about DevOps and a bit about OpenShift overall. We then dive into OpenShift itself, which is a Kubernetes based container app platform. It provides a bunch of things, including CI/CD and enterprise tools by default. Next we pivot to why it is used - dipping into CI/CD, K8s mgmt, Security for DevOps, app scaling and microservices support, and finally hybrid and multi-cloud devops. We now move on to a real world example, which is very theoritcal. They then go through a list of people who might use OpenShift, before going through some FAQs. 
BottomLine: Good intro to OpenShift from a high level
==
URL reference: https://www.mirantis.com/blog/agents-mcp-and-kubernetes-part-3/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-07
Description: Our article today is part of a series on AI agents and MCP servers. We start with the fact this is part 3, and we've already worked through getting AI agents and MCP servers working. This work established connections and went through auth, but didn't deal with what happens once connected. We are secure, but how to know/control what is going on? They will do this by bringing the MCP server into Istio's area, and allowing the requests to be inspected. We have a diagram, yay! The idea here is that by routing them through Istio, as an application level gateway, we can filter, monitor, and even track actions for cost. After a bit of a dance of how this is different and why it's needed, we get into the gateway details. It looks at LLM traffic, MCP calls, and webhooks to see what is going on. They use AgentGateway, and explain it is configured with YAML. We then dive into the implementation a bit before concluding. I'd like to have seen more examples or a walkthrough, and a bit less justification.
BottomLine: Okay intro to using an Agent Gateway to manage MCP requests
==
URL reference: https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s
DateReviewed: 2026-03-08
Description: Today we're going to look at a repo for K3s - a lightweight Kubernetes that is production ready. They start with a laundry list of possible usages, then explain what they are - a full featured but very lightweight version of Kubernetes, all packed in one 100MB binary. They aim for reasonable defaults and no OS dependencies. They explain that all core functionality is there, the big things they've removed are in-tree storage drivers and cloud providers. They point out that each of these does have CSI and CCM alternatives, so it is possible to use those things. They have lots of docs links and have a great approach.
BottomLine: Look at the lightweight Kubernetes distro K3s
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@browncoder/kubernetes-taints-and-tolerations-explained-like-youre-5-067c7a92712a
DateReviewed: 2026-03-09
Description: Our article today is about taints and tolerations, and how they affect where Kubernetes runs your workloads. Our author is going to try to simplify things in their description of how they work. They describe taints as a "keep out" sign of sorts; a way to tag nodes as only accepting certain kinds of pods. A toleration is a "get out of jail free" card, which allows a pod not to worry about the sign. There are also varying degrees of taint - they can be NoSchedule, so unless you are okay (or have a toleration) you won't run here; PreferNoSchedule - will try to avoid, but will schedule if need to; and NoExecute, which aggressively removes unwanted pods. Well written and short.
BottomLine: Good primer on Kubernetes taints and tolerations
==
URL reference: https://www.tencentcloud.com/products/tke
DateReviewed: 2026-03-10
Description: So, this isn't so much an article but a sales pitch -- it's a bunch of claims from the TenCent people, about how good their Kubernetes engine is. They have a big SECOND LEVEL bit of wording, but it took me a few seconds to realize they were talking about startup speed. It would be more helpful to explain what benefits this offering has over others, rather than some seemingly random NUMBERS they have ... 300% increase if resource usage rate, 50% biz peformance ... waht do these mean? Am I half as performant if I'm a business user? Are they chargint 3x what competition do? Likely not, but thses aren't helpful.
BottomLine: Sign up page for a cloud Kubernetes provider and their offerings
==
URL reference: https://www.pulsepatch.io/posts/cleanstart-2026-jr03360-external-secrets-hostname-error-vulnerability/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-11
Description: Our article today is an analysis of some vulnerability related to Kubernetes. It refers to external secrets (which it calls a "product"), and makes mention of hostname errors. After reading through the entire article, it just talks about issues and never explains what the problem is. So I'm not sure if this is a crafted input attack or a DNS resolution vector, or if it's a badly formatted config file. It is solved by updating, so that is good.
BottomLine: Odd writeup of a Kubernetes vuln involving hostames and external sectrets in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://github.com/mysticaltech/terraform-hcloud-kube-hetzner
DateReviewed: 2026-03-12
Description: I misread today's article description and thought it was for a trial version of Kubernetes similar to the AWS free tier thing. It's actually a way to deploy K8s on Hetzner in a minimal maint way. They say it's prod ready and HA by default, which sounds good. Well documented and with a good amount of releases and support, feels like a cool project.
BottomLine: Easy way to run Kubernetes on the Hetzner cloud
==
URL reference: https://dzone.com/articles/oci-images-as-kubernetes-volumes-a-new-era
DateReviewed: 2026-03-13
Description: Today's article is about a feature available in Kubernetes v1.35 ane later as beta, image volumes. We dive right in, with the author telling us that until now you could only use S3 or GCS for external files, so this development simplifies things. You can reuse your image-scanning tools, and this also allows you to update your data without doing code updates. They do go through how to create it, and then how to utilize it from your code as a mount in the config. They even show how to try it out today.
BottomLine: New Kubernetes feature allowing mounting of OCI volumes for data
==
URL reference: https://twitter.com/japtain__cack/status/2024003195912286651
DateReviewed: 2026-03-14
Description: This is a walkthrough in point form of someone's entire home lab. They go through all of the eqiupment, starting at the 54U rack and going through their various gear, including various Intel and Arm based compute, netwroking, power and storage. I'd have loved a bit more of a writeup on what and why, but this is a good sample of all the bits neeeded and how they fit together. They even go a bit through what types of apps they use and how that runs.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of one persons full home lab setup
==
URL reference: https://www.pulsepatch.io/posts/cve-2026-27112-kargo-authorization-bypass/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-15
Description: Today's article is on a auth bypass vuln in Kargo. They explain the big picture of what is going on, namely that Kargo provides API endpoints and the impact could be creating, modifying or deleting resources that users don't have permissions to change. They don't detail the actual issue that caused the problem, but note it is serious and likely exploitable, but not seen as too worrisome by sentiment analysis. They note that upgrading solves the issue, and if that isn't possible locking down who can access the API and from where can provide some mitigation.
BottomLine: Decent discussion of a Kargo auth bypass vulnerability
==
URL reference: https://pedrotchang.dev/posts/cert-manager-letsencrypt-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-16
Description: Our article today will talk about using Let's Encrypt to automate certificate renewal. On Kubernetes, we use something called cert-manager to do this process. They make a few solid points about why having automated certs are important. We then go through some Helm charts and the author explain what they do and why they are needed. Now that we have cert-manager set up, now we need to set up the process that does the issuing on the cluster - in this case ClusterIssuer. The author explains why you might need to use DNS instead of HTTP for the process -- if you want a wildcard cert, or if you want to have non-public certs. They then show us how to request a certificate, and also how inbound services leverage the cert using Gateway API.
BottomLine: Walk through on setting up automatic certificate issue and renew on Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://cloud.hacktricks.wiki/en/pentesting-cloud/kubernetes-security/index.html
DateReviewed: 2026-03-17
Description: So today's article is actually a collection of info and techniques. It feels like a security person put this together when first tasked with doing a pentest that involved Kubernetes, so they might not know a lot about it. It starts with a K8s basics and some learning resources, then a K8s harderning link. Then we dive in with manual K8s pentest bits - from the outside, enum inside a pod, enum with K8s creds, doing priv escalation with K8s namespaces, and finally pivoting to the cloud. This resource has a few different resources for various cloud providers.
BottomLine: Good primer to get started with a Kubernetes pentest
==
URL reference: https://portallinuxferramentas.blogspot.com/2026/02/suse-kubernetes-security-update-2026.html
DateReviewed: 2026-03-18
Description: This article details SUSE updates which address issues with Kubernetes and Go in their system. Oddly, this site is wrapped in Portuguese, but the article content is all English. Now it explains that due to a concern in the SUSE Go compiler, it's advised to upgrade all of SUSE enterprise K8s; this is a good practice. What I don't like is they don't detail the issue, other than it becomes a "supply chain issue", so there is no way to understand the impact. They do go through a detailed upgrade/mitigation process, so that is good.
BottomLine: Important security related Kuberentes update for SUSE enterprise
==
URL reference: https://github.com/achetronic/kubernetes-mcp
DateReviewed: 2026-03-19
Description: The repo we'll be looking at today is for Kubernetes MCP, basically a way to hook up AI assistants to your Kubernetes cluster. The idea is to have a way to inspect K8s clusters and reflect back what might be needed to keep them running well. They go through 3 different setups, so allow you to use different AI tooling with the MCP backend. They also go through a number of different scenarios, with some discussion of what types of security/guardrails might be helpful for different situations. For example, maybe you want it to be able to spin up pods but not access secrets. Interesting tool.
BottomLine: Repo of an MCP server for Kubernetes with guardrails available
==
URL reference: https://pedrotchang.dev/posts/running-claude-code-in-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-20
Description: This is a piece about the possibility that some workloads are not good containerization candidates. The starting scenario is the author is running n8n for workflow automation, and he wants to use Claude Code to optimize this a bit more. The author mentions that Claude expects a .claude directory under home, and he had some trouble with this. Claude also needs OAuth tokens that expire periodically; the issue is at renewal, the process needs to write it somewhere. Initially the author tried K8s secrets, but switched to a writable location. These were all solved, but issues persisted for the author. Claude code and his infra was memory intensive, and suffered from OOM issues. Startup times ran to a minute, meaning interactive flows were too slow. State was complex, OAuth token renewals were brittle, and debugging was challenging. He ties it up with how he got things to work, and lessons learned.
BottomLine: Solid piece about choosing and using tools right
==
URL reference: https://www.boot.dev/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-21
Description: Okay, today's piece is actually promotional material for a learning site. It's actually decently done, with interesting approached and two broad paths - backend and DevOps. The have a "demo" path, which I guess is supposed to give you the flavor of what courses are like? I'd like to have seen a full sample lesson on some topic, where they did a simulated one. Also, I get using "XP" as a gamification technique, but I'd rather opt for better feedback. For example, they show a "math error" which is an inverted sign; I'd say this is a logic error, but I'm being nit picky too. But interesting nonetheless.
BottomLine: Promo piece for a few cloud course related learning paths
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/k8slens/12-best-kubernetes-security-tools-you-need-in-2026-9fca4258db0e
DateReviewed: 2026-03-22
Description: Today we'll go through yet another list of twelve tools that someone thinks are essential for Kubernetes security. We start with a few paras on background, and then jump in to tools - we start with the name, a brief overview, a screen shot and then a bit about how to use it. We start with KubeLinter then Checkov, touch on Trivy and Kubescape, look at Cosign/Sigstore and Kyverno for the first half. Next is OPA Gatekeeper and Falco, then Cilium and Calico, and finishing up with Kube-hunter and Kube-bench. All interesting tools, so not a bad tour. 
BottomLine: Decent list of 12 security tools to help with Kubernetes clusters
==
URL reference: https://github.com/metantesan/ansible-kube-cluster
DateReviewed: 2026-03-22
Description: Our article today is on spinning up a Kubernetes cluster with Ansible. It seems like a sensible approach, where the repo walks through the prereqs, what configs you need to tweak, and then how to actually get everything working with Ansible. They have a number of playbooks, logically org'd by function. Interesting approach.
BottomLine: Decent repo using Ansible to spin up a Kubernetes cluster
==
URL reference: https://labs.iximiuz.com/courses/kubernetes-the-very-hard-way-0cbfd997/control-plane/kube-scheduler#overview
DateReviewed: 2026-03-23
Description: Today's article is actually a lesson from a Kubernetes course, and this lesson is focused on how a container or pod gets scheduled. As this is done directly by K8s, it's important to understand the process. They talk about how the scheduler does its job - how it picks which nodes to run pods on, and how a pod actually gets running. Great walkthrough.
BottomLine: Strong lesson on the Kubernetes pod scheduler
==
URL reference: https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2026/02/amazon-eks-node-monitoring-agent-open-source/
DateReviewed: 2026-03-24
Description: This article is the announcement of the open-sourcing of the node monitoring agent for Amazon EKS. The article gets right down to tacks, talking about what is monitored on a node. The addition of transparent source allows users to know exactly what is going on and even enhance the agent if they find a missing feature. The overall gist is that the agent monitors for problems, and if it discovers one it then tries to repair any issues.
BottomLine: Announcement of the open-sourcing of the EKS monitoring agent
==
