
URL reference: https://itnext.io/how-do-kubernetes-user-namespaces-work-84b9c02cd5f9?gi=86c38f73a674
DateReviewed: 2026-02-01
Description: Today's article dives into user namespaces which are enabled by default as of v1.33. We dive right in, and they explain that user namespaces add a layer of security and reduce the blast radius if something goes wrong. Next, we move into some of the details - first, the feature is Linux only, and your env has to be set up right to use them. The author mentions a specific OS/kernel/K8s server and containerd versions he got it working with. To illustrate, they look at a conventional pod, and show the underlying Linux process, noting it runs as root. They toggle a swtich on, and look again -- this time, it is running as a non root user with a large user ID. They then dive into userID mapping; again, they start with a non-mapped pod, which is actually just a 1-1 mapping that matches the node. For our user namespace, the map is from root to a large uid, but only for 65k entries, which is configurable. We then explore an example, which they show us the passwd file for the node, and then execute a command on the pod, then check on the node who the owner of the process is. The result is that the owner is the map start value plus the uid of the user; pretty neat. To finish up, they mention that you have to test to ensure that user namespaces work - the toggle will silently fail but still create the pod, so you won't get the benefits.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of how User Namepaces work in Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://www.percona.com/blog/kubernetes-operators-compared/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-02
Description: Our article today will do a comparison of a number of Kubernetes DB operators. After a bit of background, we dive in, first by going through the types of operators. They divide them into proprietary vendor-specific ones, community open source, and finally enterprise grade open source ones. They then show us a chart with various features, so we can see what they do (and don't do). Next up they do a bit of analysis on what matters on the biz outcomes side. First is cost efficiency (that compounds), second resilience you can depend on, third is scalability without complexity, and finally governance and compliance made simpler. Each of these has a para explaining what they are and how they fit the general picture. From here, the article wanders off into being a bit of a PR piece, promoting Percona operators, which is fair enough. Good background and explainations.
BottomLine: Decent comparison of various DB operators
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@sohail_saifii/the-kubernetes-secret-thats-exposing-production-credentials-f19d9a18e3fc
DateReviewed: 2026-02-03
Description: This article tackles this problem of Kubernetes secrets. The author starts with the premise that K8s secrets aren't encrypted but just obfuscated (true). They say there is some potential exposure (also true), and goes through a "real world" example which shows the exposure. But part of the scenario is that RBAC is misconfiged, so it's a failure there too? Now they point out that RBAC can be difficult to get right, and explain another scenario where you get the service account token, basically owning the K8s cluster. They also mention that the YAML files are often Git committed, along with the secrets, and those get cloned to every dev and can be possibly made public; all true. Again, a story of leaked AWS keys leads to unintended charges which is bad. They then talk about both CI/CD needs, and third party tools or SaaS apps in your chain. Okay, now we pivot to solutions, and they do make sensible reccomendations - use your provider's secret manager, don't store secrets in Git, use RBAC properly, rotate secrets, use short-lived creds where possible. He explains how this can be done as layers, and includes a checklist to get it right. He does have some more real world badness he includes. Also, I'll admit I thought in the buildup the "solution" would be a specific vendors encrypted store, which wouldn't address some of the issues that were being posed; was actually pretty solid in that.
BottomLine: Very decent piece on doing Kubernetes secrets securely
==
URL reference: https://cloudnativenow.com/editorial-calendar/best-of-2025/ebpf-the-silent-power-behind-cloud-natives-next-phase-2/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-04
Description: Today's article is on eBPF and how it is anticipated to be the power behind the next phase in Cloud Native's evolution. They explain that originally it was targeted at packet filtering (the PF part), but over time it has expanded to more things over time, acting as a sandbox that can perform actions at the kernel level, without the downside of crashing the system. We then pivot to what currently uses it - Service Mesh, Observability, Security and Networking, each with a para on each of them. We then move on to why eBPF is to important - it can replace sidecars for some things, it gives deep visibility into the system, and is both efficient and extensible. They make the argument that while it is transformational, it's also invisible to average uses. There are some downsides, which include complexity of writing eBPF friendly code, that the code is tied to kernel versions (and Win support is still in progress), and multiple approaches are emerging that are incompatible. 
BottomLine: Good high level overview of eBPF and its place in Cloud Native
==
URL reference: https://joachim8675309.medium.com/essential-devops-tools-for-macos-faceea783e84
DateReviewed: 2026-02-05
Description: Our article today tackles DevOps tools that are available on MacOS. We start with a bit of MacOS background, and point out that while OS X is Unix derived, it's BSD based and that causes CLI variations in utilities and other bits. They arrange tools by category, and start with cloud provisioning - Terraform, AWS CLIL and okta-aws-cli are mentioned. Next is Kubernetes, and they touch on the CLI, Helm, Kustomize, Helmfile and Krew. For each, they have a one or two sentence description. They have two other cats - Java and mention Correto OpenJDK, and others mentioning Vault. They then go over how to install XCode and Homebrew, followed by some utils, shells, paths, and finally the tooling they talked about earlier in the piece. 
BottomLine: Good piece going through what you need to install on MacOS for DevOps
==
URL reference: https://en.paradigmadigital.com/dev/what-is-argo-cd-why-should-you-stop-using-kubectl-apply-manually/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-06
Description: I like the approach of this article, which advocates for not using kubectl manually -- in the guise of asking "what is ArgoCD". Now ArgoCD is a way to deploy code to a server, a so called "continuous delivery" system. It even has a cute logo! It watches a code repo and deploys based on rules you feed it. It then talks a bit about benefits before diving into basic concepts. We have applications, or code that is deployable. There is a project, which is a collection of one or more apps. Sync is the process of getting a new code change deployed, and refresh compares commits with live state. Finally there is health, or do the various apps do what they are intended to do. We then do a bit of a GUI tour.  Good intro.
BottomLine: Dives into ArgoCD and how it works as an automation for Kubernetes deployments
==
URL reference: https://socfortress.medium.com/secure-kubernetes-deployment-guide-self-managed-part-x-121b41fa4bfe 
DateReviewed: 2026-02-07
Description: This article, if you can call it that, seems to be the last part of a multi-part exercise, of which part this is the checklist. It does give us the purpose, which is turning on security before starting workloads, which is sensible. Now the checklists are decent and detailed, but there isn't any explaination for any of it. So, if your looking for a checklist, this is decent, and possibly earlier this series might be helpful? But this isn't a great part all on its own.
BottomLine: Decent checklist but lacks explaination for Kubernetes security
==
URL reference: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#access-to-proxy-subresource-of-nodes
DateReviewed: 2026-02-07
Description: Today's article is on Best practices for RBAC in Kubernetes. I actually love how this is structured, as well as them suggesting looking at the usual RBAC docs. They start with least privs, touch on minimizing distrib of priv tokens, talk about hardening and periodic review. Next they talk about priv escalation risks, including listing secrets, workload creation, persistent vol creation, and accessing proxy subresources of nodes. Each topic is a paragraph, and they do a good job of covering them. They also cover DOS issues. Great primer. 
BottomLine: Very solid article on good RBAC practices for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://techstackguide.com/azure-kubernetes-service-network-policies/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-08
Description: Our article for today is about using Azure for Kubernetes. One thing I'd say is it would be nice to have a layout of the big picture, but instead we dive right in with Network Policy implementation. They have a few YAML/CLI snips which is helpful, and they walked through scaling and security, before going through monitoring and logging. They also talk about cost mgmt. Next up we move into enabling network policy, crafting a policy, applying it then verifying it. Then they go through troubleshooting and more strategic verification.
BottomLine: Decent piece on Network Policy for Kubernetes on Azure
==
URL reference: https://www.devopschat.co/articles/kubernetes-135-features-that-change-day-2-operations
DateReviewed: 2026-02-09
Description: Today's article dives into Kubernetes v1.35 features that will make your life easier in the longer run. In this context, we call this "day 2" ops, after the hub-bub of the initial launch quiets down. The downside is that this discussion is super high level, with no hands on or examples. They talk about the new Pod Management policy and how it allows better management of lifecycle events, and also things like advanced resource mgmt controls and GPU resource simplification. But all high level.
BottomLine: Good update but no details or hands on for Kubernetes v1.35 new features
==
URL reference: https://codesmash.dev/why-i-ditched-docker-for-podman-and-you-should-too
DateReviewed: 2026-02-10
Description: This article makes the argument to ditch Docker for Podman, and shows how and why the author did so. We start with a bit of nostalgia, going back to Vagrant and then Docker and how that it was a game changer in how Dev was done. We now confront a bunch of Docker CVEs, so docker is now scary and insecure. So, the author ponders other tools - enter Podman. One issue the author raises is Docker's daemon, which runs as root -- but Podman doesn't do it that way. The apps you run are spawned as you with your permissions, which is more secure. They mention an exploit that ran Docker w/o TLS so people could spin up containers without controls. He notes a few other things he likes, and it seems good. He notes what changed, and actually does a walk through of how to do it. Interesting.
BottomLine: Very good guide on how to try Podman from Docker
==
URL reference: https://thenewstack.io/should-enterprises-run-containers-in-vms-or-bare-metal/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-11
Description: Our article today compares running containers in VMs vs. running th
em on bare metal from an enterprise perspective. We start with a bit of backgrou
nd, then talk about why VMs are used now. We then dive into a discussion of how bare metal works, and contrast that with VMs. The idea is that K8s has a lot of flexibility in contrast to bare metal, and things like security and isolation are stronger with K8s. It's an interesting analysis.
BottomLine: What is better - VM with Kubernetes or bare metal
==
URL reference: https://www.naviteq.io/blog/oke-vs-eks-vs-gke-vs-aks-kubernetes-compared/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-12
Description: Today's article is a face off among the top 4 Kubernetes cloud providers. They look at Oracle, AWS, Google and Azure (Microsoft). We start with an intro, where they hype up K8s and explain that enterprise is very interested in it. They then dig into managed Kubernetes, and contrast it with self-managed clusters. We then dive into each provider, with a 3-5 para summary of what they offer and pros/cons. We then go through a chart of comparison, for quick reference. Then they ask some interesting questions, like how K8s pricing differs by provider, with a lot of detail explored. They go through some managed K8s use cases, do another bit of selling on managed K8s, then wrap it up.
BottomLine: Decent comparison of the top 4 Kubernetes cloud providers
==
URL reference: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2025/04/22/these-kubernetes-mistakes-will-make-you-an-easy-target-for-hackers/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-13
Description: Okay, so I love the topic and thought process for this piece, but not so impressed with the layout. We start with a bit of background, and the usual "K8s is insecure because of misconfigs and design errors by implementers". So far, so good. But going on, each nugget comes as a pearl of wisdom from some corporate guy, as a soundbite. Now the advice in the piece isn't bad, but it feels like it's a panel session where we go around the table rather than a solid security piece. So, I'm 50 - 50 on it.
BottomLine: Okay piece that covers lots but seems over quotey on Kubernetes security
==
URL reference: https://undercodetesting.com/kubernetes-nightmare-how-attackers-are-pwning-your-clusters-and-what-you-must-do-now-video/
DateReviewed: 2026-02-14
Description: So this article talks about Kubernetes nightmare, but it's actually more of a walk through of what attackers might do to your cluster. It alludes to being AI written, so maybe? Let's dig in. First up is an intro, where they talk about issues around security that come up with Kubernetes. Next we have a learning objectives, which suggests it's a teaching piece rather than an article. Next up they describe the attack process - recon and discovery, grab a service token, use a misconfiged RBAC to gain K8s access as a start. Then they use priv escalation to move from pod to the host node, and finally grab secrets and config info from the admmin are of the cluster. There is a bit of commentary at the end, but it's a very good walkthrough.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of how to attack a Kubernetes clusters security
==
URL reference: https://twitter.com/techyoutbe/status/2014792077008310461
DateReviewed: 2026-02-15
Description: Today our item is an infographic, or a series of infographics, all related to Kubernetes security. Our first one is on net policies, but the slides are all about either DNS or services. The previous one which is Quoted is about net policy and traffic control, and that is more accurate. They talk about net defaults and how net policies work, and actually have commands to show status and such. Clicking one more deep, the title of this one is pod security and hardening, and goes through them. Talks about secure pods, running as non root, dropping unneeded capabilities and goes through some CLI commands. These are fairly decent, terse and well laid out snippets. Recommened to browse through.
BottomLine: Decent infograpics on some Kubernetes security pieces
==
