
URL reference: https://linuxsecurity.com/features/linux-kernel-module-hardening-modulejail
DateReviewed: 2026-06-01
Description: Our article today will talk about Kernel modules which we aren't using and how that plays into security. The thing is that your system is very smart nowadays, and the core kernel is fairly tight, with a lot of optional pieces relegated to being loaded as needed as the kernel needs it as a module. This piece explains that things you aren't using and aren't normally loaded could be pulled in if things go the right way, and that could expose you to a security issue you might not normally consider. Our authors mention something called ModuleJail, which sees what you are currently using and builds a potential blacklist to reject if you don't need other kernel modules. They then talk about what these magic modules do - namely, talk to thinks like hardware drivers, network cards and features, filesystems and more. The idea here is you can load the module for your network card, not every network card that Linux supports. The idea they advance, which is sound, is that servers need some drivers, but a DB server doesn't need some esoterice FS drivers, and a web server won't need fancy video card support drivers. So the idea is to look at what you are using now, but also to look through recent boot logs and such to see historically what has been needed; build a whitelist of required modules, and then add other things to a potential blacklist, only enabling it after a good amount of testing.
BottomLine: Strong approach to the idea of restricting Linux kernel modules for security reasons
==
URL reference: https://deepsource.com/changelog/2026-05-20
DateReviewed: 2026-06-02
Description: Today's article is more of an ad blurb then an actual piece. It talks about DeepSource SCA, which it appears is a software scanner. The big news in this blurb is that it supports monorepos, which ends up allowing a big older type of repo to be scanned - each dependency gets it's own report/tab. It appears to use AI to do reviews, and has a laundry list of languages where this capability is available. Not much on how it works or what it does; maybe that is in another doc or blurb, but not here at all.
BottomLine: Mostly an advertising blurb for a source code scanner now for monorepos
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@Luna_Writes/the-kubernetes-era-is-fading-heres-why-top-tech-companies-are-choosing-these-5-simpler-tools-bea0e1146d76
DateReviewed: 2026-06-03
Description: Our article today is a toe-dip into the world of Kubernetes alternatives, because it isn't just a one man show anymore. While they don't think K8s is going away anytime soon, they do want to look at the competition, and see what they offer. So, we have 5 alts they cover - Nomad, Docker Swarm, Amazon ECS, Google Cloud Run and Fly.io. Each is covered with a few sentences, and explains what they offer and how they differ from K8s. It's always good to look at the options, and this is a good piece for that.
BottomLine: Short piece which explores alternatives for Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://itnext.io/local-platform-engineering-on-your-laptop-vind-sveltos-and-argocd-2b3e1341ebe7
DateReviewed: 2026-06-04
Description: Today's piece is a blog of sorts, about someone sitting down to build some stuff, breaking some stuff and discovering a useful tool in the meantime. Our author is experienced at Kubernetes, and seemingly a developer at one time. We start the piece with background, and then dive in - managing Kubernetes when you have a few clusters can be challenging. You have different configs, teams, providers. You end up with a mishmash of scripts. To the rescue, it seems is Sveltos. You have to deploy it to all of your clusters, and there are a few pre-reqs, but Sveltos handles orchestrating K8s. Add the right label and Sveltos makes the cluster get to the state; remove it and Sveltos cleans it up. He does mention some security things to think about, but also goes through a bunch of the little pieces that make it nice to run clusters more easily. It supports Helm charts, YAML, and a few other config tools. It integrates with Flux and ArgoCD. And he goes through a pretty thorough install and walk through, with a second part promised soon.
BottomLine: Walk through of a tool to manage multiple Kubernetes clusters
==
URL reference: https://sinapti.ca/post/en/how-to-automate-deployment-in-kubernetes-with-jenkins-comple-ylk8i905
DateReviewed: 2026-06-05
Description: Our article today is a step by step walkthrough of how to use Jenkins to deploy to Kubernetes, which is of great interest for developers that might not be familiar with containers or K8s. We get a tiny bit of motivational background before going through the pre-reqs, and then straight in. First it's installing a plug in, then credential config, a Jenkins file and a K8s manifest, then create the pipeline. They have some troubleshooting tips and next steps, like doing blue/green or other more sophisticated stuff.
BottomLine: Good solid piece doing a walkthrough of using Jenkins to deploy to Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://securityonline.info/fleet-security-vulnerabilities-kubernetes/
DateReviewed: 2026-06-06
Description: This article dives into issues that fleets of clusters might have, paticularly in the area of GitOps. They actually detail 3 very seperate vulns, and how they can be leveraged together to compromise a cluster and more. Each vuln is given it's own section, and pulling up the rear is a mitigation and resolution section for people affected. Short but to the point.
BottomLine: Article on 3 Kubernetes ecosystem vulns and their impacts
==
URL reference: https://edjgeek.com/blog/deploy-fastapi-aws-60-seconds/
DateReviewed: 2026-06-07
Description: Today's article details deploying FastAPI to AWS in 60 seconds - but I'd say it is more then that, as the explaination is at least that long. They do a quick job of motivating this, and then move on to explaining how it works overall and then what you need to do to get it working. This is all focused on Lambda, AWS way to run serverless -- and they focus on how you have to make no changes to your program code to use this. It actually seems fairly simple and would be something neat to try.
BottomLine: New approach to deploying apps for Serverless with FastAPI
==
URL reference: https://arunnsm.medium.com/kubernetes-architecture-whats-under-the-hood-93907aa18686
DateReviewed: 2026-06-08
Description: Our article today tries to dig into how and why Kubernetes actually works - the architecture layer. They postulate that K8s works on two layers - Control plane and Node layers, with additional optional bits. They do a decent job of diving into each layer, explaining the setup, the high level bits, and how they are invoked and what they do.
BottomLine: Strong basic explaination of Kubernetes architecture
==
URL reference: https://us.ovhcloud.com/resources/blog/kubernetes-audit-log-security-with-falco-on-ovhcloud-mks/
DateReviewed: 2026-06-09
Description: Today's article is a bit of a niche - looking at how to audit Kubernetes logs if you are using OVHcloud. While it's a bit specific, I think the overall lessons should still work, and they are using Falco for this, so let's take a peek. They start with a bit of motivating info, and then get to objectives - the biggest of which is tying your K8s deployment into a Logs data platform spot. This appears to be a raw VM, rather than a K8s deployment, and they walk you through the clicks needed to get it spun up. After it is running, you now have to create a reciever for the logs, which they call a data stream, and they walk you through setting that up. We then note the web socket address, which they say we'll use later. Now we have to point our K8s cluster at the log platform; they do this again through a web UI, but you oddly have to subscribe (where I think you'd want to publish). When this is done, we're feeding our log event stream into the platform, and now we have to set up Falco. They show us a YAML file to base thing on, and then how to use Helm to deploy Falco with the YAML we created. The request a new namespace, which is sensible, considering this is security stuff. They give us commands to monitor it starting up, and how to verify Falco is running right. To test Falco functionality, they show us how to add a simple rule detecting an exec or attach to a pod; and then after the rule is running, we exec to a pod. Well done walk through, if a little specific.
BottomLine: Good vendor specific example of using Falco to monitor Kubernetes
==
URL reference: https://devm.io/devops/gitops-automation-security
DateReviewed: 2026-06-10
Description: Our article today talks about using GitOps to automate security. We start with a bit of general background, and then a section on "what is DevOps", which feels a bit dated, before digging into "what is GitOps", which seems more on point. The big idea is to use Git and tooling around it to build and deploy the infra you need. Except that's all we'll know about, because the rest of the article is paywalled.
BottomLine: Interesting topic but article is a tease behind a paywall
==
URL reference: https://bleevht.substack.com/p/why-most-home-lab-kubernetes-setups
DateReviewed: 2026-06-11
Description: Today we'll dive into why many home lab Kubernetes setups fail. This is a blog, so we dive right in - our author has talked to some lab builders, and the story is the same - they take a weekend, build a cluster, watch some YT vids and deploy a sample app, and sometimes get ingress working. Then, they stop touching it. Clusters runs, but they aren't using it to learn. And he thinks he knows why this happens again and again. Traditional home labs focus on infra - what tools, what distros (K3s, Talos, etc). Experiment with network, storage, load balancers and GitOps tools. The issue, he points out, is that you still might not be able to deploy a service, fiddle with ingress, set up a persistent volume or many other things, including troubleshooting. He says that it's important to *use* K8s, not just spin up clusters. The idea is to try new things, use K8s, watch it break and then fix it. Adding ingress, fiddling with replica counts, seeing what happens when a pod crashes. The strong suggestiong is mindset approach - not "what cluster should I build", but "what concepts do I want to practice"? The author mentions and links to a K8s learning platform that helped them. I like this approach very much.
BottomLine: Good strategic appraoch to building a Kubernetes homelab
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/@deep.dkt0/kubernetes-day-6-secrets-and-configmaps-60ae92311629
DateReviewed: 2026-06-12
Description: In this article, we'll look at two Kubernetes concepts - secrets and configmaps. We start with a bit of background, and then jump into What are configmaps, and goes through common uses and how to create them. They then explain how they can be used, for example as env vars or in manifests. Next, we dive into Secrets, and their common uses. They then show how to create them, and note they should be in base64 form in a YAML file. They can be used as env variables too, but also as mounts to the container if needed. They mention by default secrets are plaintext in etcd, but we can enable encryption at rest and we should enable RBAC and access control on them. They end up with some best practices for each of configmaps and secrets. Good intro and walk through.
BottomLine: Good intro piece on Kubernetes Secrets and ConfigMaps
==
URL reference: https://scooplabs.in/blog/devops-challenges-and-solutions
DateReviewed: 2026-06-13
Description: Today's article will tackle DevOps challenges and their solutions. We start with some background, where they talk about the perception of DevOps and it being a smooth process, to issues that are often encountered by teams. They point out the difference between DevOps tutorials and small real world issues. They surface a number of things that contribute, including culture and approach issues. We now get into the meat of the article, starting with the lack of a clear CI/CD pipeline strategy. They outline things to answer, what bad answers lead to, and how engineers try to address this. Next they dive into Env inconsistency - where things are not the same between machines/areas/dev-prod. Next they touch on scaling appls without breaking systems. Our next challenge is poor monitoring and lack of visibility, which can lead to missed errors and bad performance. Next they address security gaps in DevOps, and all that this entails. Now, they enumerate 5 more areas, and the article seems pretty solid, but for each of these points I've had a popup twice that annoys me so I'm going to stop here. My suggestion is to copy the article to notepad to avoid dumb popups.
BottomLine: Good article and topic with super annoying popups
==
URL reference: https://labs.iximiuz.com/tutorials/kubernetes-admission-control-534baab1
DateReviewed: 2026-06-14
Description: Our article today is actually a detailed piece on Kubernetes Admission control mechanism, and it comes with a tutorial to get your own hands dirty. They start with a bit of background on the environment for the lab and setup, and then dive right in to the K8s API request pipeline. We get a diagram and then get into types of admission control. It does go into some detail on how the controllers work and what the various ones do, which is done well. Next is schema validation, before doing another bit on dynamic admission control. They end this section talking about admission policies, how they act a bit differently then what we've talked about until now and their benefits and drawbacks. Great piece.
BottomLine: Very solid piece on Kubernetes admission controllers that comes with a tutorial
==
URL reference: https://isectech.org/kubernetes-container-security-2026/
DateReviewed: 2026-06-15
Description: Today's article looks at modern security issues in the cloud from the perspective of incident responders. They start with some high level info on recent breaches in 2026, and how they were a config error initially but were only detected a while later when finance flagged the bill amount. They explain that both K8s and the tooling are mature, but what isn't quite there yet is the operating approach for K8s clusters. They point out that there is a lot of possible attack surfaces in K8s, and that the surface grows fater then the knowlege to understand and secure it does. They correctly point out that the default approach of Kubernetes is for ease of setup and use, and not security, and too many operators don't understand this gap. They then work through three engagements, explaining how the config had been messed up, how signs of issues had possibly been missed, and what could have been done to mitigate the issue. None of the issues was hard or novel to solve; in hindsight they are all crystal clear. They explain how they approach security with clients, in paticular pushing hard on policy enforcement and understanding and having solid remediation plans for the exceptions. Super interesting piece.
BottomLine: Great piece on Kubernetes breaches and how to minimize them
==
URL reference: https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering/sitar-agent-building-a-reliable-dynamic-configuration-sidecar-at-scale-b7e00c152068
DateReviewed: 2026-06-16
Description: Our post today is a forray into a bit of Airbnb's infra, paticularly their dynamic config system. A previous post had talked about how a change to the system is built; this post looks at how it is enacted. It turns out they run an agent in a sidecar, which subscribes to changes and updates what is then the local filesystem with the new config. And with a nice diagram they go through the process, from a config change being done and then validated, to creation of an hourly snapshot, then having new pods pull the snapshot to establish a baseline, then asking the sitar service if there are any new changes. After startup, the sidecar polls the service for changes; the app reads the shared FS mount which has the latest up to date changes. One thing they point out - with this design, even if the main sitar service is down, pods can start based on the snapshot configs. They then go on to discuss the pros and cons of using the main container to manage configs versus using a sidecar. They even talk about the polling architecture, and optimizations they use which cut down on unneeded retrieval of configs. Finally they went through a migration on their data store, from an older tech to SQLite, while also comparing RocksDB as a contender. Very well written and worth reading.
BottomLine: Walkthrough of AirBNBs dynamic config update system
==
